
                               1 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                      January 30, 2012 Monday 6:30 AM EST

R.A.R.E. Project: Rare Disease Bloggers Unite with 'Blog Hop' to Raise Awareness
for World Rare Disease Day 2012 and 1 Million for Rare Campaign

LENGTH: 508  words


New Delhi, Jan. 30 -- The R.A.R.E. Project (www.rareproject.org) and The Global
Genes Project (www.globalgenesproject.org), leading patient advocacy
organizations representing the rare disease community, today announced they are
hosting a rare disease 'blog hop' to kick off a month long awareness campaign
leading up to the fifth annual World Rare Disease Day on February 29, 2012. To
join the rare disease blog hop, please visit
http://rareproject.org/2012/01/30/rarediseasebloghop/.

Rare diseases affect 30 million Americans, approximately 350 million people
globally, and consist of 7,000 different types of diseases and disorders.
According to the Kakkis Everylife Foundation, 95% of rare diseases have no
treatments, leaving tens of millions of patients and families without hope.

Today over 40 leading bloggers joined forces to blog about the realities of
living with various rare diseases. Stories are showcased from patients and
families who are affected by Batten's Disease, CIDP, Chronic Inflammatory
Demyelinating Polyneuropathy (CIDP), Chronic Variable Immune Deficiency (CVID),
Citrullinemia, Cystinuria, Epidermolysis Bullosa, Fibromuscular Dysplasia,
Gaucher's Disease, Hunter Syndrome, Huntington's Disease, Joubert Syndrome,
Kleefstra Syndrome, Langerhans cell histiocytosis (LCH), Lennox-Gastaut Syndrome
, Maple Syrup Urine Disease, Marfan Syndrome, Mitochondrial Myopathy, Moebius
Syndrome, Nager Syndrome, Neimann Pick Type C, Pallister-Killian Syndrome,
Primary Immune Deficiency Disease (PIDD), Pseudotumor Cerebri, Sanfilippo
Syndrome, Spina Bifida and more.

"Rare disease patient organizations are beginning to realize that they are
facing the exact same issues when it comes to developing treatments and cures
for their specific rare disease," said Nicole Boice, president, R.A.R.E.
Project. "By combining our voices and teaming up, we can begin to be heard on
national level and together create the changes needed to spur drug development
for all rare diseases."

1 Million for Rare Campaign

The R.A.R.E. Project and The Global Genes Project are asking rare disease
patient advocacy groups to support the awareness efforts through the month of
February in a variety of ways:

* Join the 1 Million for Rare disease awareness campaign by going to Facebook
and "liking" the 1 Million for Rare awareness movement -
http://www.facebook.com/globalgenesproject

* In addition to joining the 1 Million for Rare movement, supporters are asked
to spread the word to their social networks and display the 1 Million For Rare
logo on their personal websites or Facebook pages throughout the month of
February 2012

* Write tweets: @GlobalGenes. Use: #1Mil4RARE

* Wear jeans and a denim ribbon on Rare Disease Day 2012 and consider holding a
"jeans party" to raise money for your rare disease. Rare Disease Day denim
ribbons can be obtained for your organization by contacting the R.A.R.E.
Project. Tweet with: #WearThatYouCare

* Become part of the movement by contacting the R.A.R.E Project and join over
500 organizations who support awareness efforts

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2012 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                               2 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                             April 9, 2015 Thursday

Cortendo AB Joins National Organization for Rare Disorders (NORD)® Corporate
Council

LENGTH: 505  words

DATELINE: Washington


Biotechnology Industry Organization has issued the following news release:

Leaders in Rare Disease Community Unite for National Cushing's Syndrome
Awareness Day on April 8

Cortendo AB (publ) [ticker: CORT on NOTC-A], a global biopharmaceutical company
focused on rare endocrine disorders and other rare diseases, and the National
Organization for Rare Disorders (NORD)®, a leading, independent nonprofit
organization committed to the identification, treatment and cure of rare
diseases, today announced that Cortendo has joined NORD's Corporate Council.

The NORD Corporate Council is composed of a select group of leading companies
committed to helping people with rare diseases, also known as orphan diseases.
The Council provides a unique opportunity for interaction with the rare disease
community, including patient advocacy organizations, and enables companies to
discuss emerging trends with top experts in the worldwide rare disease effort.
Members include pharmaceutical, biotechnology, medical device and other
companies engaged in the aspects of health care for the rare disease/orphan
product community. Membership supports NORD's programs of education, advocacy,
research and service.

"We are pleased to have Cortendo join NORD's Corporate Council, and we
appreciate their commitment to bring innovative new therapies to market for the
treatment of orphan indications with their initial focus targeting rare
endocrine disorders and Cushing's Syndrome," said Peter L. Saltonstall,
president and chief executive officer of NORD.

Cushing's Syndrome is a rare endocrine disorder that is caused by prolonged
exposure to elevated levels of cortisol produced within the body or introduced
from outside the body. Symptoms of Cushing's Syndrome may include abnormal
weight gain, upper body obesity, thin purple streaks on the skin, fatigue,
diabetes, high blood pressure, and depression.

"Cortendo is proud to announce joining NORD's Corporate Council today, which
marks National Cushing's Syndrome Awareness Day," said Matthew Pauls, president
and chief executive officer of Cortendo. "Our partnership with NORD reinforces
Cortendo's commitment to advancing research and development efforts that may
improve the lives of people with rare diseases, including our currently
recruiting Phase 3 trial of the investigational compound COR-003
(levoketoconazole), which is being studied in Cushing's Syndrome."

A rare disease is defined as a disease that affects fewer than 200,000
Americans. In the U.S., an estimated 30 million people (1 in 10 individuals)
have a rare disease, many of which can be chronic and can be life-threatening.
Fewer than 400 of the 7,000 rare diseases have FDA-approved treatments.

National Cushing's Syndrome Awareness Day occurs on April 8 because it is the
birthday of Harvey Cushing (1869-1939), the American physician, surgeon and
endocrinologist who discovered and reported the disease in 1932.

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                               3 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            April 8, 2015 Wednesday

Cortendo AB Joins National Organization for Rare Disorders (NORD)® Corporate
Council

LENGTH: 508  words


Washington, D.C.: Biotechnology Industry Organization has issued the following
news release:

Leaders in Rare Disease Community Unite for National Cushing's Syndrome
Awareness Day on April 8

Cortendo AB (publ) [ticker: CORT on NOTC-A], a global biopharmaceutical company
focused on rare endocrine disorders and other rare diseases, and the National
Organization for Rare Disorders (NORD)®, a leading, independent nonprofit
organization committed to the identification, treatment and cure of rare
diseases, today announced that Cortendo has joined NORD's Corporate Council.

The NORD Corporate Council is composed of a select group of leading companies
committed to helping people with rare diseases, also known as orphan diseases.
The Council provides a unique opportunity for interaction with the rare disease
community, including patient advocacy organizations, and enables companies to
discuss emerging trends with top experts in the worldwide rare disease effort.
Members include pharmaceutical, biotechnology, medical device and other
companies engaged in the aspects of health care for the rare disease/orphan
product community. Membership supports NORD's programs of education, advocacy,
research and service.

"We are pleased to have Cortendo join NORD's Corporate Council, and we
appreciate their commitment to bring innovative new therapies to market for the
treatment of orphan indications with their initial focus targeting rare
endocrine disorders and Cushing's Syndrome," said Peter L. Saltonstall,
president and chief executive officer of NORD.

Cushing's Syndrome is a rare endocrine disorder that is caused by prolonged
exposure to elevated levels of cortisol produced within the body or introduced
from outside the body. Symptoms of Cushing's Syndrome may include abnormal
weight gain, upper body obesity, thin purple streaks on the skin, fatigue,
diabetes, high blood pressure, and depression.

"Cortendo is proud to announce joining NORD's Corporate Council today, which
marks National Cushing's Syndrome Awareness Day," said Matthew Pauls, president
and chief executive officer of Cortendo. "Our partnership with NORD reinforces
Cortendo's commitment to advancing research and development efforts that may
improve the lives of people with rare diseases, including our currently
recruiting Phase 3 trial of the investigational compound COR-003
(levoketoconazole), which is being studied in Cushing's Syndrome."

A rare disease is defined as a disease that affects fewer than 200,000
Americans. In the U.S., an estimated 30 million people (1 in 10 individuals)
have a rare disease, many of which can be chronic and can be life-threatening.
Fewer than 400 of the 7,000 rare diseases have FDA-approved treatments.

National Cushing's Syndrome Awareness Day occurs on April 8 because it is the
birthday of Harvey Cushing (1869-1939), the American physician, surgeon and
endocrinologist who discovered and reported the disease in 1932.

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                               4 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                             April 9, 2015 Thursday

Cortendo AB Joins National Organization for Rare Disorders (NORD)® Corporate
Council

LENGTH: 505  words

DATELINE: Washington


Biotechnology Industry Organization has issued the following news release:

Leaders in Rare Disease Community Unite for National Cushing's Syndrome
Awareness Day on April 8

Cortendo AB (publ) [ticker: CORT on NOTC-A], a global biopharmaceutical company
focused on rare endocrine disorders and other rare diseases, and the National
Organization for Rare Disorders (NORD)®, a leading, independent nonprofit
organization committed to the identification, treatment and cure of rare
diseases, today announced that Cortendo has joined NORD's Corporate Council.

The NORD Corporate Council is composed of a select group of leading companies
committed to helping people with rare diseases, also known as orphan diseases.
The Council provides a unique opportunity for interaction with the rare disease
community, including patient advocacy organizations, and enables companies to
discuss emerging trends with top experts in the worldwide rare disease effort.
Members include pharmaceutical, biotechnology, medical device and other
companies engaged in the aspects of health care for the rare disease/orphan
product community. Membership supports NORD's programs of education, advocacy,
research and service.

"We are pleased to have Cortendo join NORD's Corporate Council, and we
appreciate their commitment to bring innovative new therapies to market for the
treatment of orphan indications with their initial focus targeting rare
endocrine disorders and Cushing's Syndrome," said Peter L. Saltonstall,
president and chief executive officer of NORD.

Cushing's Syndrome is a rare endocrine disorder that is caused by prolonged
exposure to elevated levels of cortisol produced within the body or introduced
from outside the body. Symptoms of Cushing's Syndrome may include abnormal
weight gain, upper body obesity, thin purple streaks on the skin, fatigue,
diabetes, high blood pressure, and depression.

"Cortendo is proud to announce joining NORD's Corporate Council today, which
marks National Cushing's Syndrome Awareness Day," said Matthew Pauls, president
and chief executive officer of Cortendo. "Our partnership with NORD reinforces
Cortendo's commitment to advancing research and development efforts that may
improve the lives of people with rare diseases, including our currently
recruiting Phase 3 trial of the investigational compound COR-003
(levoketoconazole), which is being studied in Cushing's Syndrome."

A rare disease is defined as a disease that affects fewer than 200,000
Americans. In the U.S., an estimated 30 million people (1 in 10 individuals)
have a rare disease, many of which can be chronic and can be life-threatening.
Fewer than 400 of the 7,000 rare diseases have FDA-approved treatments.

National Cushing's Syndrome Awareness Day occurs on April 8 because it is the
birthday of Harvey Cushing (1869-1939), the American physician, surgeon and
endocrinologist who discovered and reported the disease in 1932.

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                               5 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            April 8, 2015 Wednesday

Cortendo AB Joins National Organization for Rare Disorders (NORD)® Corporate
Council

LENGTH: 508  words


Washington, D.C.: Biotechnology Industry Organization has issued the following
news release:

Leaders in Rare Disease Community Unite for National Cushing's Syndrome
Awareness Day on April 8

Cortendo AB (publ) [ticker: CORT on NOTC-A], a global biopharmaceutical company
focused on rare endocrine disorders and other rare diseases, and the National
Organization for Rare Disorders (NORD)®, a leading, independent nonprofit
organization committed to the identification, treatment and cure of rare
diseases, today announced that Cortendo has joined NORD's Corporate Council.

The NORD Corporate Council is composed of a select group of leading companies
committed to helping people with rare diseases, also known as orphan diseases.
The Council provides a unique opportunity for interaction with the rare disease
community, including patient advocacy organizations, and enables companies to
discuss emerging trends with top experts in the worldwide rare disease effort.
Members include pharmaceutical, biotechnology, medical device and other
companies engaged in the aspects of health care for the rare disease/orphan
product community. Membership supports NORD's programs of education, advocacy,
research and service.

"We are pleased to have Cortendo join NORD's Corporate Council, and we
appreciate their commitment to bring innovative new therapies to market for the
treatment of orphan indications with their initial focus targeting rare
endocrine disorders and Cushing's Syndrome," said Peter L. Saltonstall,
president and chief executive officer of NORD.

Cushing's Syndrome is a rare endocrine disorder that is caused by prolonged
exposure to elevated levels of cortisol produced within the body or introduced
from outside the body. Symptoms of Cushing's Syndrome may include abnormal
weight gain, upper body obesity, thin purple streaks on the skin, fatigue,
diabetes, high blood pressure, and depression.

"Cortendo is proud to announce joining NORD's Corporate Council today, which
marks National Cushing's Syndrome Awareness Day," said Matthew Pauls, president
and chief executive officer of Cortendo. "Our partnership with NORD reinforces
Cortendo's commitment to advancing research and development efforts that may
improve the lives of people with rare diseases, including our currently
recruiting Phase 3 trial of the investigational compound COR-003
(levoketoconazole), which is being studied in Cushing's Syndrome."

A rare disease is defined as a disease that affects fewer than 200,000
Americans. In the U.S., an estimated 30 million people (1 in 10 individuals)
have a rare disease, many of which can be chronic and can be life-threatening.
Fewer than 400 of the 7,000 rare diseases have FDA-approved treatments.

National Cushing's Syndrome Awareness Day occurs on April 8 because it is the
birthday of Harvey Cushing (1869-1939), the American physician, surgeon and
endocrinologist who discovered and reported the disease in 1932.

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                               6 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                      April 8, 2015 Wednesday 6:30 AM EST

Cortendo Joins National Organization for Rare Disorders (NORD) Corporate Council

LENGTH: 468  words


April 8 -- Cortendo AB (publ) [ticker: CORT on NOTC-A], a global
biopharmaceutical company focused on rare endocrine disorders and other rare
diseases, and the National Organization for Rare Disorders (NORD), a leading,
independent nonprofit organization committed to the identification, treatment
and cure of rare diseases, today announced that Cortendo has joined NORD's
Corporate Council.

The NORD Corporate Council is composed of a select group of leading companies
committed to helping people with rare diseases, also known as orphan diseases.
The Council provides a unique opportunity for interaction with the rare disease
community, including patient advocacy organizations, and enables companies to
discuss emerging trends with top experts in the worldwide rare disease effort.
Members include pharmaceutical, biotechnology, medical device and other
companies engaged in the aspects of health care for the rare disease/orphan
product community. Membership supports NORD's programs of education, advocacy,
research and service.

"We are pleased to have Cortendo join NORD's Corporate Council, and we
appreciate their commitment to bring innovative new therapies to market for the
treatment of orphan indications with their initial focus targeting rare
endocrine disorders and Cushing's Syndrome," said Peter L. Saltonstall,
president and chief executive officer of NORD.

Cushing's Syndrome is a rare endocrine disorder that is caused by prolonged
exposure to elevated levels of cortisol produced within the body or introduced
from outside the body. Symptoms of Cushing's Syndrome may include abnormal
weight gain, upper body obesity, thin purple streaks on the skin, fatigue,
diabetes, high blood pressure, and depression.

"Cortendo is proud to announce joining NORD's Corporate Council today, which
marks National Cushing's Syndrome Awareness Day," said Matthew Pauls, president
and chief executive officer of Cortendo. "Our partnership with NORD reinforces
Cortendo's commitment to advancing research and development efforts that may
improve the lives of people with rare diseases, including our currently
recruiting Phase 3 trial of the investigational compound COR-003
(levoketoconazole), which is being studied in Cushing's Syndrome."

A rare disease is defined as a disease that affects fewer than 200,000
Americans. In the U.S., an estimated 30 million people (1 in 10 individuals)
have a rare disease, many of which can be chronic and can be life-threatening.
Fewer than 400 of the 7,000 rare diseases have FDA-approved treatments.

National Cushing's Syndrome Awareness Day occurs on April 8 because it is the
birthday of Harvey Cushing (1869-1939), the American physician, surgeon and
endocrinologist who discovered and reported the disease in 1932.

Source: National Organization for Rare Disorders (NORD)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2015 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                               7 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                           Philippines Daily Inquirer

                            April 12, 2014 Saturday

Bill hopes to help Filipinos with rare diseases

BYLINE:  Charles E. Buban

LENGTH: 869  words


As the country observed last month the National Rare Disease Week (every fourth
week of March), Sen. Pia Cayetano said a bill is now being pushed to eventually
mandate the government to assist individuals with rare disease by means of
increasing their access to medical treatment and drugs, and include them in the
coverage of the Universal Health Care program.

According to Cayetano, under Senate Bill No. 2098, or the "Rare Disease Act of
2014," the Department of Health (DOH) will be tasked to establish a National
Rare Disease Registry, which will include an inventory of rare diseases in the
country, information on diagnosed patients and a list of certified medicines and
medical devices.

Interestingly, similar bills tacking rare diseases are also being pushed in the
lower House by Representatives Baby Arenas, Randolph Ting, Alfred Vargas and Gus
Tambunting.

A "rare disease" is one that affects less than one in every 20,000 individuals.
In most cases the rare diseases manifest during childhood and are genetic in
origin.

Hard time coping

Cayetano in a statement explained that patients, who are mostly children, are
chronically ill and suffer from pain and isolation throughout their life. She
added that their families also have a hard time coping because treatment is not
only very costly but are not readily available in most hospitals and clinics.

Gaucher Disease, Maple Syrup Urine Disease, Pompe Disease, Galactosemia,
Phenylketonuria, Methylmalonic Acidemia, Urea Cycle Defects, Hurler Syndrome,
Hunter Syndrome, Prader-Willi Syndrome, Edward Syndrome and Patau Syndrome are
just some of the rare diseases now identified in the Philippines.

Rare disease is an issue quite close to the senator considering that in 2001,
Cayetano lost her youngest child Gabriel from a rare congenital condition called
Trisomy 13 (also called Patau Syndrome). Babies afflicted with Trisomy 13 have a
very low survival rate-Gabriel lived for nine months-because they suffer from
various ailments that include poor heart conditions, kidney problem, recurring
respiratory infections, gastro-intestinal problems, poor eyesight and poor
hearing.

Philippine Society for Orphan Disorders (PSOD) president Cynthia Magdaraog said:
"In a way, we understand how a parent like the senator would feel seeing the
suffering of her own child. It is so incomparable that parents would be willing
to do anything to save their child's life." She also has a son afflicted with
Pompe disease, another type of rare condition.

Newborn screening

Both the senator and Magdaraog believe that the number of diagnosed patients
with rare diseases could still rise now that the upcoming newborn screening
(NBS) program of the government will be expanded to 28 rare diseases beginning
this year.

Newborn screening is a procedure intended for early identification of infants
who are affected by certain genetic, metabolic, or infectious conditions that
may lead to mental retardation or morbidity if left untreated. The NBS in the
country started in June 1996 and was integrated into the public health delivery
system with the enactment of the Newborn Screening Act of 2004 (Republic Act No.
9288).

There are four NBS centers: Newborn Screening Center (NSC)-National Institutes
of Health in Manila, NSC-Visayas in Iloilo City, NSC-Mindanao in Davao City and
NSC-Central Luzon in Angeles City. They provide laboratory and follow-up
services for more than 3,000 health facilities around the country.

From 1996 to December 2010, the program has saved 45 283 patients.

Rare disease

Furthermore, Senate Bill 2098 is also recommending the inclusion of rare disease
treatment in the health benefit package of the Philippine Health Insurance Corp.
with medical drugs and devices used for treating rare diseases be certified by
the Food and Drugs Administration  to facilitate the public's access to these
products.

Also, the same bill seeks to help patients suspected or diagnosed with rare
disease to be referred to regional NSCs, which will then coordinate with the DOH
and concerned medical facilities for the "co-management" of the patient with a
specialist.

At present, the NBS in the country includes screening of six disorders:
congenital hypothyroidism, congenital adrenal hyperplasia, phenylketonuria,
glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency, galactosemia and maple syrup urine
disease. The expanded screening will also include 22 more disorders such as
hemoglobinopathies and additional metabolic disorders, namely organic acid,
fatty acid oxidation, and amino acid disorders.

The formal recommendation to expand the coverage of the NBS program was prompted
by the results of the study called "Enhancing case detection of selected
inherited disorders through expanded newborn screening in the Philippines" and
initiated by Doctors Carmencita Padilla and Tomas Aguirre of University of the
Philippines Manila.

The screening of more disorders is intended to save more lives and reduce
unnecessary negative health outcomes of newborn Filipinos. The data of Filipino
newborns screened through the California newborn screening program  from 2005 to
2009 revealed that some detected serious disorders were still not included in
the existing program of the country.

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 Philippines Daily Inquirer
                              All Rights Reserved


                               8 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                  Whyalla News

                           February 26, 2015 Thursday

Rare Disease Day this Saturday

BYLINE: Kayleigh Bruce

SECTION: EARLY GENERAL NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 385 words


This Saturday, February 28 will mark Rare Disease Day, an unofficial day
recognising people across the world affected by a rare disease.

The day takes place on the last day of February each year in an effort to raise
awareness amongst the general public and decision-makers about rare diseases and
their impact on patients' lives.

Locally there are less than a handful of community members diagnosed with a rare
disease however Whyalla Special Education Centre principal Michelle Grocke said
it was still valuable to recognise the challenges and the impact these diseases
have on them.

"Children with rare diseases require recognition and support," Ms Grocke said.

"They often go unnoticed as there is more awareness for the more occurring
conditions such as autism and Down syndrome."

Student Charlotte Gloede, affectionately known as Charlie, has 10p which means
part of one of the body's chromosomes has been lost or deleted.

This presents with learning difficulties for Charlie particularly language
development.

Student Holly Gerahty was diagnosed with a rare syndrome known as WAGR shortly
after her six-week GP check-up when the doctor noticed something was not right
with her eyes.

Holly was diagnosed with Aniridia, an absence of the iris - the coloured part of
the eye, one of the first symptoms noted when diagnosing WAGR.

A blood test was sent to the UK for DNA testing and the results confirmed that
Holly had WAGR Syndrome.

WAGR is characterised by vision impairment, developmental delay and a high risk
of developing specific types of cancers.

This year marks six years of Rare Disease Day in Australia and continuing this
momentum, Rare Disease Day 2015 puts a focus on the daily lives of patients,
families and caregivers who are 'Living with a Rare Disease'.

Due to the uniqueness of each zebra within the species (no two zebra patterns
are alike), the zebra has been chosen as symbol to represent all exotic or rare
medical diseases.

To help raise awareness of WAGR syndrome and other rare diseases, community
members can wear black and white or zebra stripes this Saturday.

Community members are also encouraged to show their support by raising and
joining hands to show their solidarity with people living with a rare disease
and then take a picture and send it to www.rarediseaseday.org/join-your-hands/

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2015 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                               9 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                  Whyalla News

                           February 26, 2015 Thursday

Rare Disease Day this Saturday

BYLINE: Kayleigh Bruce

SECTION: EARLY GENERAL NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 385 words


This Saturday, February 28 will mark Rare Disease Day, an unofficial day
recognising people across the world affected by a rare disease.

The day takes place on the last day of February each year in an effort to raise
awareness amongst the general public and decision-makers about rare diseases and
their impact on patients' lives.

Locally there are less than a handful of community members diagnosed with a rare
disease however Whyalla Special Education Centre principal Michelle Grocke said
it was still valuable to recognise the challenges and the impact these diseases
have on them.

"Children with rare diseases require recognition and support," Ms Grocke said.

"They often go unnoticed as there is more awareness for the more occurring
conditions such as autism and Down syndrome."

Student Charlotte Gloede, affectionately known as Charlie, has 10p which means
part of one of the body's chromosomes has been lost or deleted.

This presents with learning difficulties for Charlie particularly language
development.

Student Holly Gerahty was diagnosed with a rare syndrome known as WAGR shortly
after her six-week GP check-up when the doctor noticed something was not right
with her eyes.

Holly was diagnosed with Aniridia, an absence of the iris - the coloured part of
the eye, one of the first symptoms noted when diagnosing WAGR.

A blood test was sent to the UK for DNA testing and the results confirmed that
Holly had WAGR Syndrome.

WAGR is characterised by vision impairment, developmental delay and a high risk
of developing specific types of cancers.

This year marks six years of Rare Disease Day in Australia and continuing this
momentum, Rare Disease Day 2015 puts a focus on the daily lives of patients,
families and caregivers who are 'Living with a Rare Disease'.

Due to the uniqueness of each zebra within the species (no two zebra patterns
are alike), the zebra has been chosen as symbol to represent all exotic or rare
medical diseases.

To help raise awareness of WAGR syndrome and other rare diseases, community
members can wear black and white or zebra stripes this Saturday.

Community members are also encouraged to show their support by raising and
joining hands to show their solidarity with people living with a rare disease
and then take a picture and send it to www.rarediseaseday.org/join-your-hands/

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2015 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              10 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                 BusinessWorld

                            February 19, 2016 Friday

WEEKENDER: feature;
MEDICINE CABINET: Rare Disease Day marked this month

BYLINE: Reiner W. Gloor

SECTION: Pg. S3/3

LENGTH: 766 words


RARE DISEASE DAY is celebrated all throughout the world on the last day of
February. The Philippines has been participating in this event since 2010. This
year, Rare Disease Day falls on Feb. 29.

According to the Web site rarediseaseday.org, the objective for this event is to
"raise awareness amongst the general public and decision-makers about rare
diseases and their impact on patients' lives." The campaign also aims to target
policy makers, public authorities, industry representatives, researchers, health
professionals, and anyone who might have a genuine interest in rare diseases.

This occasion was established in 2008 and has since reached hundreds of
thousands of people all over the world and has contributed to the advancement of
plans and policies for rare diseases in a number of countries.

Our own Department of Health (DoH) over the past few years has marked the day by
celebrating throughout a whole week. By way of Proclamation No. 1989 signed by
former president Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo in 2010, the last week of February has
been designated as National Rare Disease Week.

Along with the DoH, the Institute of Human Genetics, the National Institute of
Health, and the University of the Philippines Manila are assigned to serve as
the national focal agencies for purposes of commemorating this event among the
health sector and the public.

So what is a rare disease? In Europe, a disease or disorder is classified as
"rare" when it affects fewer than one person in 2,000. In the USA, that
classification is given when the disease or disorder affects fewer than 200,000
Americans at any given time. In the European Union alone, it is estimated that
as many as 30 million people may be affected by one of over 6,000 existing rare
diseases.

Eighty percent of rare diseases are rooted in genetic origins, with the
remaining possibly resulting from bacterial or viral infections, allergies,
environmental causes, or are degenerative and proliferative. Some 50% of rare
diseases touch children.

There are unique challenges facing those who suffer from rare diseases. With
over 6,000 known rare diseases and with each one having its own broad diversity
of disorders and symptoms, this may lead to misdiagnosis and delayed treatment.
Furthermore, many of these diseases present as chronic, progressive,
degenerative, and frequently life- threatening, disabling the patient and adding
to their pain. The lack of effective cures compound the frustration and
suffering for the patients and their families.

The challenges are even more pronounced in developing countries such as ours.
The lack of quality health care can lead to inequalities and difficulties in
access to treatment and care. This may often result in heavy social and
financial burdens on patients. This led Senator Pia Cayetano to file Senate Bill
No. 2098 or the "Rare Disease Act of 2014." She believes this is an important
health issue, with research and data gathering both necessary in aiding it. Here
are some notable provisions of the Bill.

Section 5 provides for the identification of persons with rare diseases and the
creation of a Rare Disease Registry. Health care practitioners and institutions
must report diagnoses of rare diseases to the Registry of the DoH, along with
reports on the status of each patient.

Section 6 provides for referral of patients suspected or already diagnosed with
a rare disease to the Regional Newborn Screening Center nearest them in order to
ensure they receive adequate medical care.

Section 8 and 9 declares that persons with rare diseases will have the same
benefits as persons with disabilities, as provided by Republic Act No. 7277 or
the "Magna Carta for Disabled Persons."

Section 19 details that the DoH must ensure a system is in place to facilitate
the qualification of a patient with a rare disease as a beneficiary of medical
management services for their disease. Treatment of their respective condition
shall be included in the benefit package from the Philippine Health Insurance
Corp. or PhilHealth, with revenues generated from the Sin Tax to include medical
assistance to patients with rare disease.

Some examples of rare diseases are: Gaucher Disease, Maple Syrup Urine Disease,
Pompe Disease, Galactosemia, Phenylketonuria, Methylmalonic Acidemia, Urea Cycle
Defects, Hurler Syndrome, Hunter Syndrome, Prader- Willi Syndrome, Edward
Syndrome, and Patau Syndrome.

Awareness about these diseases is still very low but seeing Senate Bill No. 2098
pass should enhance public education.

Log on to www.phap.org.ph and www.phapcares.org.ph. E-mail the author at
reiner.gloor@gmail.com

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2016 BusinessWorld Publishing Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              11 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                The Western Mail

                            February 26, 2016 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Mum's photos look at child beyond disease;
Photographer Ceridwen Hughes started the not for profit group Same But Different
to discourage people from judging people by appearance and took these photos to
show the real personalities of children with rare conditions. Rachael Misstear
reports

BYLINE: Rachael Misstear

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 566 words


THESE enchanting images of children form part of a new photographic exhibition
which celebrates difference. Each child has been diagnosed with a rare disease.
The images were taken by mum Ceredwen Hughes, whose son Isaac has the rare
genetic disease Moebius.

His condition results in paralysis of facial nerves, and while his family could
easily see changes in his expressions others were unable to.

Ceridwen sought to capture Isaac's personality photographically herself and her
success led her to create Same But Different and The Rare Project, featuring
many young people and children with rare diseases.

Ceridwen has worked with several families over the last 12 months to build a
gallery of images that really capture the person behind each rare condition.

Same But Different, a not for profit organisation, will launch The Rare Project
using photography to showcase the work, which is hoped will highlight the
obstacles the children and their families face.

"Isaac loves to tease and make fun of his friends - even though he was born with
a condition that means he can't smile," said Ceridwen.

The eight-year-old was diagnosed after leaving doctors baf-ffled for the first
months of his life. It affects just 200 people in the UK.

"The Rare Project encourages people to get to know young people and children
with rare diseases for their personalities and not their condition," said his
mum.

"It's vitally important that we break down barriers and empower people to have a
voice so the people behind rare diseases can be seen. People often make
judgements based on the superficial and I wanted to help people look past the
conditions and see the person behind that. It's a way of encouraging people to
find out more and ask questions and of giving them a way of doing that.

"Rare diseases affect one in 17 people in the UK. They are far more common than
many people imagine and so the project also hopes to raise awareness of the
6,000-8,000 rare diseases that exist," she added.

"The charity Findacure defines many rare diseases as 'fundamental diseases'. For
example the research into a rare condition such as Prader-Willi syndrome, which
affects appetite and diet, is a doorway to informing understanding of common
conditions such as obesity and diabetes."

Same But Different has recently partnered with Climb, a charity supporting
families affected by more than 700 Inherited Metabolic Diseases (IMDs) making up
a large proportion of rare diseases. Along with Ceridwen's son Isaac, Alex is
another of the exhibition's stars. She has Leigh's disease, a condition of the
central nervous system. It causes her severe pain at times and leaves her
severely fatigued.

Despite her condition Alex doesn't let it stop her from travelling to Florida to
visit Disney World and her favourite characters Mickey, Minnie and Jimini
Cricket.

Matthew has a similar starring role in the exhibition. He has Crouzon syndrome,
a condition where skull bones fuse prematurely.

Crouzon syndrome hasn't got in the way of Matthew's love of football and he
hopes to play for Real Madrid or Manchester United.

The exhibition opens at Chester Zoo today. It's then at the All Nations Centre
in Cardiff on Monday before moving to the Heath Hospital, Cardiff, from March 2
to 6, and then to Theatr Clwyd from May 31 to June 18.

To find out more visit www.samebutdifferentcic.org.uk >Alex - GA1 >Grace - PVL
>James - Coffin-Lowry syndrome

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: <BIsaac with chameleon<BJake - Angelman syndrome<BAlex - Leigh's
disease<BIsaac - Moebius syndrome<BApril - Hurler syndrome<BPercy - Prader-Willi
syndrome<BNina - unknown condition<BMari - Aniridia<BIsabel - Hydrocephalis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WWM


                    Copyright 2016 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              12 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily the Pak Banker

                            January 14, 2011 Friday

National Organization for Rare Disorders Awards Grant to Support Research in
Stiff-Person Syndrome

LENGTH: 579  words

DATELINE: Karachi


Karachi, Jan. 14 -- The National Organization for Rare Disorders (NORD) has
awarded a research grant for the study of stiff-person syndrome, a rare acquired
neurological disorder,1 to Eric Lancaster, MD, PhD of the University of
Pennsylvania. The study is titled, "Auto-Antigen Profiling in Stiff-Person
Syndrome." This grant is made possible through funds contributed by Lundbeck
Inc. in connection with a special program conducted in the month leading up to
Rare Disease Day in 2010. Specifically, Lundbeck conducted a web-based campaign,
"Raise Your Hand to Fight Rare Diseases," an initiative for Rare Disease Day
2010 that led the company to donate $10,000 to NORD's general research fund.

Stiff-person syndrome (SPS) is characterized by fluctuating muscle rigidity in
the trunk and limbs and a heightened sensitivity to stimuli such as noise,
touch, and emotional distress, which can set off muscle spasms.2 The exact
prevalence of SPS is unknown, although the incidence is believed to be
approximately 1 in 1,000,000 individuals in the general population.1 Women are
affected twice as often as men.2 Scientists don't yet understand what causes
SPS, but research indicates that it is the result of an autoimmune response gone
awry in the brain and spinal cord.2

"Imagine being afraid for your child to spontaneously hug you, or to be greeted
by a neighbor, step from a curb, or even leave your house, because of the fear
of painful muscle spasms and potentially serious falls. Paralyzing fear and
self-induced isolation become your constant companions," said Debra Richardson.
"I was diagnosed with SPS in 1994. NORD was my first contact. I am encouraged to
know that there are scientists who are interested in this very rare disease and
that NORD is able to fund the research."

"There has been limited research on stiff-person syndrome so we were quite
pleased when our medical advisory committee granted Dr. Lancaster the award,"
said Peter L. Saltonstall, NORD president and CEO. "Lundbeck's contribution
towards our general research fund was much appreciated and made possible this
award that supports a very worthy cause."

"Lundbeck is very pleased to know that our donation through the Raise Your Hand
campaign will fund research for this very challenging disease," said Mark
Weinberg, vice president in medical affairs at Lundbeck Inc. "Through our work
in rare diseases, we've come to appreciate the hardships faced by these
communities of patients and the value of research for even the rarest diseases.
With Rare Disease Day 2011 around the corner, we look forward to making another
meaningful donation through this same campaign."

About Rare Diseases

There are approximately 7,000 rare diseases or conditions affecting an estimated
30 million Americans, though the number of individuals confronting any one of
these disorders can be quite small. Individuals with rare diseases often face
challenges that occur less frequently with more common disorders, including
difficulty in finding medical experts, delay in receiving an accurate diagnosis,
and access to few, if any, treatment options. In the United States, rare
diseases, also referred to as "orphan diseases", are generally defined as
diseases that affect fewer than 200,000 individuals in the United States.
Published by HT Syndication with permission from Daily Pak Banker. For any query
with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact
Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2011 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              13 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                The Western Mail

                            February 22, 2010 Monday
                                 First Edition

'We knew James had problems, we just didn't know the name forthem - and nor did
anyone else for 13 years' ;
It is estimated that 175,000 people living in Wales have a rare disease. As
Wales marks Rare Disease Day this week, health editor Madeleine Brindley spoke
to one mother about her 13-year fight to get her son diagnosed them - and nor
did anyone else for 13 years'

BYLINE: Madeleine Brindley

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1753 words


WHEN Chris and Phil Humphreys met their new three-week-old foster son, they were
told that his club feet were the only health issues he faced.

But after his first night with them, the couple knew James' problems went beyond
the necessity of having his plaster casts changed every week.

It would be 13 years before James was finally diagnosed with a rare disease that
few clinicians in Wales had even heard of.

Now 28, James is facing blindness - he will receive a guide dog called Wally
this week - and he has been told that he, like the handful of other people with
Laurence Moon Bardet Biedl (LMBB) syndrome in Wales, will not be allowed to
attend a new half-day clinic once a year held in either London or Birmingham.

His mother Chris, through her work as national co-ordinator of the Laurence Moon
Bardet Biedl Society, helped to set up the clinics but the NHS in Wales has said
that patients will not be able to attend the clinics.

James has not had any ongoing medical care from a clinician with expertise in
LMBB syndrome since he was 17, when he was discharged from paediatric health
services.

Chris, who lives in Rogerstone, near Newport, said: "It took 13 years to get a
diagnosis because no-one had heard of it in Wales, these were years when he
could have had so much extra help.

"We can't look back and say, 'What if?' - we have to look at what we're going to
do in the future.

"I've been involved in all the planning stages for this new clinic and now I've
been told that my son isn't going to be allowed to go.

"People with rare diseases need to be able to access clinics that have the
clinical experts who know how to correctly diagnose and can best manage their
condition.

"For many rare conditions there are no designated clinics available.

"But for those conditions where these clinics exist and are available, people
like my son James should be able to and allowed to access them, regardless of
where they live in the UK."

Laurence Moon Bardet Biedl syndrome is a group of features which that occur
together to characterise a medical disorder. The pattern of characteristics was
first described in 1865 by two ophthalmologists - Laurence and Moon. In the
1920s Bardet and Biedl independently added to the original description of the
syndrome.

It is a rare inherited disorder which affects about one in 100,000 babies born -
it is thought that there are about 25 to 30 people with LMBB syndrome in Wales.

The syndrome causes visual impairment, which will ultimately lead to blindness;
obesity; developmental delays and problems with speech and co-ordination and
kidney abnormalities.

Some babies with the syndrome are also born with extra fingers or toes, or with
partially fused digits.

High definition ultrasound scans mean that some of the symptoms, such as kidney
problems or extra digits, can be picked up while babies are still in the womb,
which can in turn lead to an earlier diagnosis.

But when James was a child his symptoms were too often put down to - or even
dismissed as - the unfounded concerns of a worried, older mother.

The first sign that James' problems extended beyond his club feet were his
difficulties sleeping - for the first three years of his life he did not sleep
for more than an hour-and-a-half a night, spending the rest of the time
screaming. James didn't walk until he was two-and-a-half and he showed some
behaviours, which would today be classed as autistic.

After suffering difficulties in school, a psychiatrist said she thought James
had a chromosomal abnormality, but no-one knew what.

As he grew older James developed bruises along the tops of his arms as he
repeatedly bumped into door handles; he was tired all the time and would develop
very high temperatures - Chris says it was possible to fry an egg on his legs -
accompanied by rapid massive weight gain over the space of a weekend.

Chris, now 62, who has five children and who used to run a residential home for
teenagers, said: "He was just an enigma. A lot of the professionals in the early
days thought that I was a mature mum who couldn't cope."

At the age of 12, the Humphreyses were contacted by social services who told
them James' natural sister may have had an unnamed hereditary condition.

"I got in touch with the paediatrician who wasn't certain and then we went down
the route of different syndromes that he could have. He had bloods taken, then
the bloods were lost," Chris said.

"I took it upon myself to get in touch with different support groups and I was
given a helpline to ring and that was the start - everything James had seemed to
fit with LMBB.

"The consultant was also thinking along this line. I went to the LMBB society's
conference in Coventry and by the time I saw the geneticist I knew more about it
than she did."

Chris, who will speak at an event at the Senedd, in Cardiff, to mark Rare
Disease Day on Wednesday, added: "After the euphoria of diagnosis came the
depression of what was ahead.

"I should have felt pleased when told that James would now have the creme de la
creme of education from the visually impaired education service, but all I, and
the rest of our family, could feel was desolation that we needed such a service.

"I have to admit Gwent did and still does have the best service in the country,
especially when I listen to parents in other parts of the UK.

"The thing that I and 99% of other families who have children diagnosed with
LMBB can't cope with is the fact that they lose their sight, because we can't
comprehend it ourselves.

"For everything else in this syndrome some form of medical intervention will
help - years ago kidney problems could result in death. But with the eyes, once
the back of the eye has deteriorated there is no replacing it.

"James is virtually blind but having the guide dog will make such a difference
to his life."

"Yes he has his problems - learning difficulties, orthopaedic, neurological
spasticity, obsessive compulsive disorder, is on the autistic spectrum,
registered as blind and one or two others - but he is a young man with a
wonderful wry sense of humour, who has raised several thousand pounds for his
society, achieving two tandem parachute jumps, and quad biking with a lead bike,
followed by back-up bike just in case.

"On one of these very wet occasions, I said to a friend: 'How is he going to
manage with the rain splattering the mud in his face?' Her reply was: 'Chris,
he's blind,' and with that he disappeared over Eglwysilan mountain with his head
to one side, listening to the sound of the lead bike."

More recently, out in Northern Ireland, James was taken out on a speed boat. To
the horror of his father and friend who were sitting - hanging on - in the back,
James was allowed to take full control at 40mph.

"James is a remarkable young man who will do things that his brothers will not.

"If anyone had said to me 28 years ago that my life would have taken on what it
has done, I would never have believed them.

"This is something that I am passionate about and there's nothing I wouldn't do
to help James or anyone else in a similar situation."

A Welsh Assembly Government spokeswoman said about access to the specialist
clinic: "The Welsh Assembly Government provides funding and support for
specialised services for rare diseases such as Laurence Moon Bardet Biedl
Syndrome (LMBB).

"Our annual plan for specialised services in Wales includes provision for Welsh
patients suffering from LMBB and significant funding for these patients has
already been allocated in our budget.

"This money is available to enable patients who require treatment at the LMBB
diagnostic and management services in Birmingham and London to access these
services.

"We will be in touch with the clinical directors of these services to ensure
they fully understand that the services they provide are available for patients
living in Wales, especially children requiring early diagnosis and family
support, and that their treatment will be fully funded by the Assembly
Government.

"Patients who have concerns about accessing these services should, in the first
instance, contact Health Commission Wales." For more information about the
Laurence Moon Bardet Biedl Society visit www.lmbbs.org.uk Rare disease day Rare
Disease Day, on Wednesday, is a global event designed to raise awareness of rare
diseases and improve services for those affected.

A rare disease is one which affects about one in 2,000 people. They are
surprisingly common - 175,000 people in Wales (3.5 million in the UK) - live
with a rare condition at some point in their lives.

There are more than 6,000 different rare conditions and they include
Huntington's Disease, Myasthenia Gravis, all childhood cancers and other
conditions, which are less familiar, such as Mal de Debarquement Syndrome,
Juvenile Batten Disease and Behçets Syndrome.

Rare diseases vary in severity and symptoms, but people living with these
conditions report similar issues around diagnosis and treatment.

It can take patients years to get a firm diagnosis, which can often result in
their conditions deteriorating, inappropriate treatment and medication, and
significant distress.

Rare Disease UK is now campaigning for a strategy in Wales and for integrated
services to speed up diagnosis and ensure there is effective treatment and care
for people living with rare conditions.

Alastair Kent, chair of Rare Disease UK, said: "There are tens of thousands of
people in Wales and millions of people in the UK living with rare conditions.

"For many, the information available on their conditions is scarce and
scientific research is lacking.

"Raising awareness of rare diseases and the need for a co-ordinated strategy for
the diagnosis, treatment and research of rare diseases is hugely important."

Rare disease facts 75% of rare diseases affect children and 30% of patients will
die before their fifth birthday; One in 17 people will develop a rare condition
at some point in their life; 80% of rare diseases have identified genetic
origins. Other rare diseases are the result of infections, allergies and
environmental causes, or are degenerative and proliferative; Rare diseases are
often chronic, progressive, degenerative, and often life-threatening; Rare
diseases are disabling - quality of life is often compromised; patients and
their families can suffer high levels of pain; and rare disease patients face a
number of problems, including a lack of access to correct diagnosis and a lack
of quality information.

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  ENIGMA: Chris Humphreys with her foster son James at home in Newport.
His rare disease, Laurence Moon Bardet Biedl syndrome, was finally diagnosed
when he was a teenager - and then only thanks to Chris' persistence and
determination PICTURE: Andrew Davies

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: wm


                    Copyright 2010 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              14 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          The Journal (Newcastle, UK)

                           January 26, 2013 Saturday

Rare Diseases

BYLINE: Dan Warburton

SECTION: A; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 115 words


RARE diseases   while individually uncommon   affect one person in every 17 with
around 80% of them having a genetic component.

Between 6,000 and 8,000 known rare diseases exist, and about 30 million people
across Europe are affected by a rare disease.

Prof Hans Lochmüller's research will look at the following rare diseases:
Muscular dystrophy, spinal muscular atrophy, Cystic Fibrosis, spinocerebellar
ataxia, Huntington's disease, osteogenesis imperfecta, Ehlers-Danlos syndrome,
epidermolysis bullosa, Rett syndrome, Marfan syndrome, hemochromatosis,
thalassaemia, mucopolysaccharidosis, polycystic kidney disease, Nephrotic
syndrome, haemophilia, progeria and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis.

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2013 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              15 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                        China Daily (Hong Kong Edition)

                            April 1, 2015 Wednesday

Not as rare as you thought

BYLINE: Sylvia Chang

LENGTH: 1506  words


Misdiagnosis, lack of specialist doctors, hospital protocol - there seems to be
too many stumbling blocks in the way of identification and treatment of unusual
diseases in HK. Sylvia Chang reports.

Steve Lau knows what it's like to be dead. He's been "there" three times, if
that's the right way to put it - a remarkable record for a man of 45. He bears
no visible scars and looks like any other man of his age. However, he had
cardiac surgery three times in the last 15 years. Each time surgeons opened up
his chest, stopped his heart and put in new valves to replace the old worn ones.

Lau suffers from Marfan syndrome, a rare disease caused by a genetic mutation
that weakens the body's connective tissue. Hong Kong maintains no official
record of people detected with Marfan syndrome. Doctors know little of the
disease. There are no special facilities for patients suffering from the rare
disease.

"Hong Kong attaches the least importance to genetic diseases, or the so-called
rare diseases, compared to other economies. No special measures have been
implemented, even for the detection of rare diseases," says Lam Ching-wan,
clinical professor at the Department of Pathology, Li Ka Shing (LKS) Faculty of
Medicine at the University of Hong Kong. Lam has been researching rare diseases
for more than 20 years.

"I felt like I was left behind by society. The feeling caused me and my family a
lot of pain," Lau says.

Lau doesn't have the visible appearance of someone with a serious illness. At
six feet two inches, lanky and leggy, he's taller than average. "I was taller
than my teacher by the time I got to Form Five," says Lau. His parents and two
brothers are way shorter than he is.

Being tall was considered an advantage. Lau was chosen for the school basketball
team, exercised a lot, and was good at tennis. Everybody thought he just grew
faster than the other kids.

One night in 2001 he felt a terrible pain in his chest. Lau was shocked. He had
a physical checkup the month before and was judged in perfect health. He went
back to the doctor the next day for a second checkup.

"The doctor asked me three questions," Lau remembers, "Do you smoke? Do you
drink? And do you have a family history of heart diseases?" He answered no to
all.

"Then the doctor gave me his diagnosis - gastro-esophageal reflux disease
(GERD)," says Lau. GERD is a disease of the stomach which can cause severe chest
pains. Sometimes it causes heartburn.

Lau was given a gastroscopy - a probe of the stomach. There was nothing wrong
with his stomach either. The doctor sent him home with a clean bill of health.
Lau was no better, really. Later the diagnosis of GERD was proven incorrect.

Diagnosis errors

"The chance of misdiagnosis in rare diseases could be more than 80 percent," Lam
said, citing his own research data. "That definitely affects patients' health.
Sometimes it leads to early and often sudden demise."

In 2001, Zhu Gang, a main player in the Chinese national volleyball team died of
sudden rupture of his aorta. He was in his 30s. In 1996, Jonathan Larson, famed
American choreographer and winner of a Tony Award and a Pulitzer Prize, died
unexpectedly. Doctors later concluded Larson died from undiagnosed Marfan
syndrome.

Lau said had he not gone back to the hospital for another test after
experiencing chest pains, he might have died. A CT scan showed significant
swelling of Lau's aortal veins leading to the heart. The aortic diameter of
people at Lau's age is about two or three centimeters, while Lau's had reached
eight centimeters. The aortal veins could have burst at any time.

"A doctor told me that I needed surgery immediately, or I would die." Lau
recalled. That night surgeons were called back to the hospital to perform an
emergency operation.

Doctors suspected it was Marfan syndrome but couldn't be positive without
further examination. Marfan syndrome requires a gene test to establish a
definitive diagnosis. Weakness of the connective tissues may lead to the
dysfunction of other organs, the cardiovascular system, the eyes, even the
bones.

"His body is like a house built with inferior cement. Once the cement is
non-functional, all parts are affected, leaving the entire house ready to fall
down," explains Lau's wife Olga Chew. They were married only two years when Lau
had his first surgery. Chew, however, put on a brave face and promised Lau her
lifetime support.

A hazy area

The Marfan Syndrome Association in Hong Kong states that one in 5,000 people
have the syndrome, citing statistics published by the National Marfan Foundation
in the United States. That would point to about 1,400 cases in Hong Kong,
assuming they are alive. But these obviously aren't official figures.

The city does not have a database of statistics nor an official definition of
the about 6,000 other rare diseases identified globally.

According to the World Health Organization, in every 10,000 people, 6.5 to 10
suffer from rare diseases. That implies that in Hong Kong about 45 newborn
infants every year are born with a rare disease, extrapolated from births
averaging 45,000 per year, says Lam, the pathologist from the University of Hong
Kong.

"But the actual number must be higher. Some patients may die before they are
diagnosed... 150 to 200 rare diseases have been diagnosed in Hong Kong but the
actual number is higher.

"There is no special hospital for genetic experts in Hong Kong. Doctors who are
not specialized in genetics have difficulty verifying rare diseases." Lam
explained. "The courses taught in medical schools cover only the most common
diseases, such as diabetes, cardiovascular disease and cancer. It all depends on
whether or not a doctor has knowledge of rare diseases (related to the
symptoms)," Lam added.

Only six medicines for four kinds of rare diseases are listed on the Hospital
Authority Drug Formulary. Patients authorized to use them are given financial
assistance. Taiwan, however, has identified 204 rare diseases and established
specific definitions for them. Taiwan provides 85 medicines for about 1,000
rare-disease-afflicted patients as of December 2014.

Due to the lack of market demand and because of the prolonged research and
development phase, private pharmaceutical companies seem to be disinterested in
producing medicines for rare diseases.

Even the medicines listed on Hong Kong's Hospital Authority Drug Formulary
aren't always available. Neither are specialist doctors under the Hospital
Authority ready to prescribe these.

"Only if the team confirms that the medicine will benefit a patient in a
specific stage of the disease in an obvious way will they authorize that
medicine," said Lam. Even he won't be able to predict whether or not a medicine
might have a specific impact on a patient, he added.

New rights group

The last day of February is marked as International Rare Diseases Day. The Hong
Kong Alliance for Rare Diseases was established on that day this year, with a
mission to urge the government to protect the human rights of this largely
unrepresented group.

Chung Hon-yin, clinic associate professor at the Department of Paediatrics and
Adolescent Medicine, University of Hong Kong, joined the association as a board
member. A specialist in clinical genetics, Chung has been actively involved in
training frontline doctors and nurses.

"Early detection and even early diagnosis are significant to a patient of rare
disease. I would like to vouch for this smattering of a voiceless group," Chung
says.

Lam says an undiagnosed disease program at the medical school of the University
of Hong Kong, has been providing clinical help to patients with rare diseases
since November 2014, on a two-year grant from the S.K. Yee Medical Foundation.

"Before I know I have Manfan syndrome, I had a long-term plan for my life. But
now I'm living in a different way," says Lau, who was just notified by his
doctor that he will require further cardiac surgery in the next two or three
years.

He cannot allow himself to think of a long-term future but must live for today.
He says he is happy and he considers the quality of life to be of higher value
than his life expectancy. He and his wife quit their jobs three years ago.
Together, they are pursuing what interests them the most. "We're now learning
ceramics, photography, drawing," say Lau, who breaks into smile talking about
his wife. "I'm like a bomb that may explode at any time. But I have no fear
now."

Contact the writer at sylvia@chinadailyhk.com

Steve Lau, who suffers from Marfan syndrome, and his supportive wife Olga Chew
(in picture above) have decided to make the most of the time they have together,
by engaging in creative activities. Edmond Tang /China Daily

A patient of Marfan syndrome demonstrates how the disease has made the fingers
grow unusually long - a condition called "spider fingers". Provided to China
Daily

Professor Chung Hon-yin of HKU and Steve Lau at a conference hosted by the
Marfan Syndrome Association on March 26, where Lau shared his experience with
the audience. Provided to China Daily

(HK Edition 04/01/2015 page8)

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1495


                    Copyright 2015 China Daily Information.
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              16 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                           Manila Times (Philippines)

                            February 6, 2015 Friday

La Union lawmaker seeks support for Rare Disease patients

BYLINE: William Jun Garcia

LENGTH: 228 words


SOURCED FROM CURRENT GLOBAL NEWSPAPERS AND JOURNALS

AGOO, La Union: Rep. Eufranio Eriguel (La Union, 2nd District) said that the
Congress has approved the Rare Disease Bill which provides medical and financial
support to patients with uncommon diseases in the country. Eriguel, who is the
chairman of the Committee on Health in Congress, said the measure also seeks to
get some funding support from the Department of Health (DOH). He added that the
bill also seeks to provide support, like the specialized medical personnel, and
strengthen the DOH research division, which maybe tasked to find the cure and
prevention of rare diseases. Authored by Las Pinas Rep. Mark Villar, the rare
diseases include the Gaucher Disease, Maple Syrup Urine Disease, Pompe Disease,
Galactosemia, Phenylketonuria, Methymalonic Acidemia, Urea Cycle Defects, Hurler
Syndrome, Hunter Syndrome and Prader-Willi Syndrome. According to the Philippine
Society for Orphan Disorders' (PSOD), there are 6,000 to 8,000 rare diseases in
the country affecting 75 percent of children population in the country. Thirty
percent of rare disease patients die before they reach five years old, Villar
added. The Bill defines rare disease as any health condition resulting from
genetic defects that rarely affect the general population, which are often
chronic, progressive, degenerative, and life-threatening.

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: English

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Political/General News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2015 News Bites Pty Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              17 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                              Global Times (China)

                            March 17, 2016 Thursday

Unusual and incurable

BYLINE: Global Times

LENGTH: 1288  words


A girl who suffers from Tethered cord syndrome rides a child's toy - she has
been getting around on this for the past 11 years. Photo: CFP


In Shanghai there are more than 200,000 people suffering from rare diseases and
more than half of these patients are children. Over 80 percent of these rare
diseases are caused by gene defects, but fewer than 5 percent can be cured or
even managed.These victims include cute 6-month-old Xiaoyu (pseudonym), who was
diagnosed with a congenital heart disease at birth. Xiaoyu's mother had noticed
that her cheerful child's facial features were unlike other children's of the
same age. After visiting almost all the children's hospitals in Shanghai,
physicians at the Children's Hospital of Shanghai diagnosed Xiaoyu as suffering
from Williams syndrome, a genetic condition that can cause cardiovascular
disorders, developmental delays and learning disabilities."Learning this changed
my whole life," said Xiaoyu's mother. She quit her job to take care of Xiaoyu at
home.

She then found an online group with 500 mothers whose children need special
attention. In this group, 30 children are also suffering from Williams syndrome
.After learning more about this disease through talking with other mothers and
studying overseas research, Xiaoyu's mother realized that some medical experts
in China would not have been able to diagnose Williams syndrome.Low incidenceAn
expert with the Shanghai Municipal Commission of Health and Family Planning
explained: "Because rare diseases have a low incidence rate, and there is not
enough professional knowledge, misdiagnosis and delayed diagnoses happen a lot."
The Ice Bucket Challenge, which was a hugely popular social media phenomenon
around the world in the summer of 2014, set out to increase awareness of
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). ALS, or Lou Gehrig's disease, is a
progressive neurodegenerative disease that affects nerve cells in the brain and
spinal cord. Lou Gehrig's disease is one of the 7,000 rare diseases recognized
internationally. The definition of a rare disease varies greatly around the
world. A disease is defined as rare by the European Commission when it affects
fewer than 1 person in 2,000, but a disease is classified rare by the Japanese
government if it affects fewer than 1 in 2,500.The Shanghai Municipal Commission
of Health and Family Planning has defined rare diseases as diseases with a low
incidence rate, of various types and severe symptoms. The Chinese Medical
Association defines rare diseases as diseases that affect fewer than 1 in
500,000 people or fewer than 1 in 10,000 newborn babies. Even with these rates
there are still more than 16.8 million Chinese suffering from rare diseases.
"About 80 percent of rare diseases are caused by gene defects, but fewer than 5
percent can be cured or managed. About 50 percent of rare diseases are present
at birth or during childhood. The diseases develop rapidly, and the mortality
rate is high. They usually cause great distress to families," said Wang Jian,
director of the Molecular Diagnostics Laboratory at the Shanghai Children's
Medical Center. Shi Tieliu is a professor at the School of Life Sciences of the
East China Normal University. He has been working with the Beijing Children's
Hospital for many years and from talking to doctors, he knows that many of these
rare diseases specifically affect children. "Many of the rare diseases are
genetic diseases. The gene mutation did not appear in the parents, but shows up
in the children. Although there are adults who also have rare diseases, most
rare diseases are found in children," Shi told the Global Times.Although women
undergo routine tests during pregnancy, these are designed to uncover general
risks and diseases. There are too many rare diseases to test for - to try to
rule out the possibility of rare diseases, a person would have to undergo whole
genome sequencing which is very expensive. It would be very difficult to prevent
these rare diseases.Last year, the Children's Hospital of Shanghai discovered 70
alien genes in 42 different rare disease categories. It was the first time 10 of
these genes had been discovered in China.

A girl who suffers from Tethered cord syndrome rides a child's toy - she has
been getting around on this for the past 11 years. Photo: CFP

Not profitableFew rare disease sufferers can take medicine to treat or ease
their symptoms. Pharmaceutical companies are not interested in undertaking
research or developing drugs for rare diseases because this is expensive and
there would not be enough people willing to pay to make these medicines
profitable.Also, because medical standards vary greatly in different provinces
and regions, the diagnosis and treatment of these diseases vary greatly. Most
rare diseases are found in departments handling pediatrics, medical genetics,
children's endocrinology, neurology and orthopedics. In March, the East China
Normal University and Beijing Children's Hospital launched a new medical
platform collating information on more than 3,000 rare diseases. The platform
aims to collate cases of rare diseases. To date in China there is still no
complete database covering all the rare diseases. The National Health and Family
Planning Commission has set up an office for research into rare diseases, but
their database is not complete, according to Shi."Our platform is a standardized
platform. This is very important. Without standardization, the cases that we
collect would be meaningless, because syndromes and treatments cannot be
compared," Shi said. He and his research team have collected the different names
used in different institutions for every rare disease, and categorized them
under one official name. They have also standardized the clinical symptoms of
rare diseases. "Since each patient is different, different patients suffering
the same rare disease could show slightly different symptoms. But the key
features of each disease are unique. We need to standardize these," Shi said. As
well as aiding research, the platform is designed to help pediatricians
throughout the country identify and treat these diseases. "Some pediatricians
have never encountered some of the rare diseases so they cannot treat them
either. The earlier these diseases are identified, the easier it is for doctors
to treat them," Shi said. He hopes to find correlations between some rare
diseases and common diseases, and then find possible treatments in medicines
used to treat more common diseases.

A mother takes care of her child who suffers from Pompe disease. Photo: CFP

Many problemsThere are many problems in the research and treatment of rare
diseases. Some rural families in isolated parts of China hide the fact that
their children are suffering from a rare disease and never alert the local
authorities.And research is very expensive. To discover why one family member
has a rare disease, researchers have to undertake whole genome sequencing of the
victim and the other siblings and parents in the family. "It costs about 10,000
yuan ($1,522) to sequence just one person," Shi said."In the US, people have
realized that only governments can invest in research for rare diseases, because
businesses are not willing to invest in this. People are willing to donate money
for research. But in China, this is not the case. China's advantage is its huge
population and consequently some of the rare diseases do not seem so rare
anymore," said Shi. In February the Shanghai Municipal Commission of Health and
Family Planning published a catalogue of the 56 major rare diseases in Shanghai.
Most of the diseases listed are endocrine and metabolic diseases, or blood and
digestive diseases. Global Times - Oriental Morning Post

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1448


                          Copyright 2016 Global Times.
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              18 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           August 26, 2015 Wednesday

Rare Genomics Institute Announces Winners of BeHEARD Science Challenge

LENGTH: 400  words

DATELINE: Washington


Biotechnology Industry Organization has issued the following news release:

The Rare Genomics Institute is delighted to announce the winners of the 2015
BeHEARD (Helping Empower and Accelerate Research Discoveries) challenge, a
global competition that offers rare disease researchers, who traditionally have
difficulty attracting funding, grants of the latest life science innovations and
technologies. This unique crowdsourced competition allows many companies to
gather together to make a difference for the rare disease community.

"We want to congratulate the winners and thank everyone who participated: our
sponsors, the reviewers and all the applicants"

"This year we received hundreds of outstanding submissions from 99 universities
and foundations in 21 different countries," said Dr. Claudia OuYang, BeHEARD
Co-Director. "Over $600,000 worth of technologies were awarded to study 31 rare
diseases."

The winning proposals from BeHEARD 2015 will potentially yield key medical
research insights and help accelerate therapeutic developments for rare disease
patients.

One example is the BeHeard CRISPR mouse model, sponsored by Jackson Laboratory
that was awarded to Dr. Carolyn Suzuki. This technology grant will allow her to
work on CODAS syndrome, a rare multi-system developmental disorder.

Another winner, Michael Harris, a parent of a Vici syndrome patient, who
received a mouse model from Taconic, said: "We are thrilled to receive this
generous award on behalf of our son and other patients suffering from Vici
syndrome. Though it is a devastating neurodegenerative disorder, this award will
hopefully lead to new therapies and a better future for Vici syndrome patients."

Rare diseases affect 300 million worldwide, yet less than five percent of the
7,000 known rare diseases have treatments available. The BeHEARD challenge helps
non-profits, academics, advocacy groups, families of patients and for-profit
companies to collaborate in their collective mission to advance rare disease
research.

"We want to congratulate the winners and thank everyone who participated: our
sponsors, the reviewers and all the applicants," noted Dr. Arvin Gouw, BeHEARD
Co-Director. "Their knowledge, resources and selfless support are crucial in our
journey for fighting against rare diseases."

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              19 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                      February 29, 2016 Monday 6:30 AM EST

Actelion Emphasizes Commitment to Advance Research, Care in Rare Diseases

LENGTH: 602  words


Feb. 29 -- Today, on Rare Disease Day 2016, patients, their families and
caregivers, patient organizations, medical professionals, politicians and
researchers are coming together to raise awareness for what living with a rare
disease means for those affected and for their families.

Patients play a crucial role in bringing both research and the standard of care
in rare diseases forward, which is recognized in the theme of this year's Rare
Disease Day, 'Patient Voice'.  For Actelion, listening to patients' voices and
working closely with the rare disease community is key to delivering on the
company's mission to discover new innovative drugs for rare diseases and to help
more patients with groundbreaking therapies. At the end of 2015, over 65,000
patients were benefiting from Actelion's rare disease drugs, and the company
continues to work with governments and other stakeholders to widen accessibility
around the world.

On February 23 in Brussels, our commitment to rare diseases was publicly
recognized by the European Organization for Rare Diseases (EURORDIS) as Actelion
was honored with the EURORDIS Company Award 2016. Presented to pioneering
companies for the development of treatments for rare diseases, the award in
particular acknowledges Actelion's work with patient groups to support the
patient and carer community.

Through the company's collaborative work with patient groups and healthcare
professionals, Actelion has become a trusted partner in supporting activities
that raise awareness of the challenges facing those living with rare diseases
and help bring about positive change. Activities include the development of
educational resources such as the innovative PAHuman eBook to better explain the
disease and its impact, and the "Think Again. Think NP-C" campaign to encourage
earlier diagnosis of Niemann-Pick type C disease among healthcare professionals
unfamiliar with this rare condition.

Gerald Fischer, CEO of the European Pulmonary Hypertension Association (PHA
Europe), said: "Actelion has provided invaluable support to our activities and,
as a result, our collaboration has led to many great achievements over the
years. It's clear that Actelion's commitment extends beyond the discovery and
development of new medicines and includes initiatives that increase knowledge
and understanding of PAH and other rare diseases, which is crucial to
organizations like ours."

An example of Actelion's pioneering work in rare diseases is an ongoing clinical
study involving patients with Eisenmenger syndrome. Working with ethics
committees, patient advocacy, support groups and patients' families, Actelion
has extended the study on Eisenmenger syndrome to Down syndrome patients, which
will help to address the high unmet medical need for effective, targeted PAH
therapies in this vulnerable and too rarely considered population.

Martine Clozel, MD, Chief Scientific Officer at Actelion, commented: "I am very
proud that, together with the PAH community, Actelion has brought about not one,
but several paradigm shifts in PAH care. The three established pathways in PAH
are now well served, but our discovery efforts continue. We are turning to new
pathways in PAH, helped by our strong connections with academia, to further
improve the prognosis for patients living with this devastating disease.
Actelion also plays a leadership role in Niemann-Pick type C disease, where the
lives of many patients have been positively impacted. I am convinced that with
our strong and innovative research, Actelion will continue to advance care in
many rare diseases."

Source: Actelion Pharmaceuticals

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2016 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              20 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Journal

                           January 26, 2013 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

City leads research into rare diseases;
New project to search for treatments

BYLINE: Dan Warburton

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 591 words


SCIENTISTS in the North East will head a multi-million pound research programme
that could unlock the genetic faults of millions of patients with rare diseases.
Newcastle University will lead 70 research centres across Europe hoping to find
new treatments for genetic diseases such as muscular dystrophy, haemophilia and
cystic fibrosis.

Newcastle's position as a world leader - following groundbreaking research on
new genetic treatments for Duchenne muscular dystrophy - has seen it handed
control of the £32m EU programme.

Already scientists believe they have uncovered a breakthrough in the treatment
of the muscle-wasting disorder Duchenne. Individual or "personalised treatment"
is being developed that could be used if clinical trials prove successful.

Newcastle's Prof Hans Lochmüller, speaking from Barcelona where he is helping to
launch the project, said: "We do not start from scratch. There is previous
research in which Newcastle has been very much involved.

"Duchenne is a muscle-wasting disorder which means young people must use a
wheelchair. If you can understand what their genetic fault is then you can apply
a drug and that would repair the defective gene. The gene is basically patched
and a protein can be made which is not being made for those suffering from
muscular dystrophy. "It's a personalised medicine that would be the result of
this research. It is at the clinical trial stage, and if the trials show the
drug is safe and well then it can be used in treatments."

Prof Lochmüller will head the six-year RD-Connect research strand which collates
and analyses data from the different institutions. It is part of the central hub
that will allow scientists to share data from their genomics research projects.

It is hoped that this will lead to faster diagnosis, better treatments and
improve the quality of life for patients.

Prof Lochmüller said: "Being able to sequence a person's entire genetic code is
an important advance, particularly for people living with the many rare genetic
disorders, but it has also shown us that sequencing is only the first part of
the story. It doesn't replace clinical expertise - in fact, being able to
combine genetic data with clinical data is more important than ever."

The International Rare Diseases Research Consortium aims to accelerate research
into rare diseases. Scientists are bidding to reach 200 new rare disease
therapies, and diagnoses for all rare diseases, by the year 2020 with the help
of 25 funding organisations and centres from across the globe.

"All these diseases are disabling and lethal," said Prof Lochmüller. "Most of
them do not have proper diagnosis and a lot of people need help.

"This research will unlock the genetic faults that cause these conditions.
Because they are so rare, we need a large-scale study across a large sample to
analyse the data."

RARE DISEASES RARE diseases - while individually uncommon - affect one person in
every 17 with around 80% of them having a genetic component.

Between 6,000 and 8,000 known rare diseases exist, and about 30 million people
across Europe are affected by a rare disease.

Prof Hans Lochmüller's research will look at the following rare diseases:
Muscular dystrophy, spinal muscular atrophy, Cystic Fibrosis, spinocerebellar
ataxia, Huntington''s disease, osteogenesis imperfecta, Ehlers-Danlos syndrome,
epidermolysis bullosa, Rett syndrome, Marfan syndrome, hemochromatosis,
thalassaemia, mucopolysaccharidosis, polycystic kidney disease, Nephrotic
syndrome, haemophilia, progeria and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis.

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: STUDY An image of a gene. Inset, Prof Hans Lochmüller

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TJN


               Copyright 2013 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              21 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                        China Daily (Hong Kong Edition)

                            April 1, 2015 Wednesday

Not as rare as you thought

BYLINE: Sylvia Chang

LENGTH: 1411  words


Misdiagnosis, lack of specialist doctors, hospital protocol - there seems to be
too many stumbling blocks in the way of identification and treatment of unusual
diseases in HK. Sylvia Chang reports.

Steve Lau knows what it's like to be dead. He's been "there" three times, if
that's the right way to put it - a remarkable record for a man of 45. He bears
no visible scars and looks like any other man of his age. However, he had
cardiac surgery three times in the last 15 years. Each time surgeons opened up
his chest, stopped his heart and put in new valves to replace the old worn ones.

Lau suffers from Marfan syndrome, a rare disease caused by a genetic mutation
that weakens the body's connective tissue. Hong Kong maintains no official
record of people detected with Marfan syndrome. Doctors know little of the
disease. There are no special facilities for patients suffering from the rare
disease.

"Hong Kong attaches the least importance to genetic diseases, or the so-called
rare diseases, compared to other economies. No special measures have been
implemented, even for the detection of rare diseases," says Lam Ching-wan,
clinical professor at the Department of Pathology, Li Ka Shing (LKS) Faculty of
Medicine at the University of Hong Kong. Lam has been researching rare diseases
for more than 20 years.

"I felt like I was left behind by society. The feeling caused me and my family a
lot of pain," Lau says.

Lau doesn't have the visible appearance of someone with a serious illness. At
six feet two inches, lanky and leggy, he's taller than average. "I was taller
than my teacher by the time I got to Form Five," says Lau. His parents and two
brothers are way shorter than he is.

Being tall was considered an advantage. Lau was chosen for the school basketball
team, exercised a lot, and was good at tennis. Everybody thought he just grew
faster than the other kids.

One night in 2001 he felt a terrible pain in his chest. Lau was shocked. He had
a physical checkup the month before and was judged in perfect health. He went
back to the doctor the next day for a second checkup.

"The doctor asked me three questions," Lau remembers, "Do you smoke? Do you
drink? And do you have a family history of heart diseases?" He answered no to
all.

"Then the doctor gave me his diagnosis - gastro-esophageal reflux disease
(GERD)," says Lau. GERD is a disease of the stomach which can cause severe chest
pains. Sometimes it causes heartburn.

Lau was given a gastroscopy - a probe of the stomach. There was nothing wrong
with his stomach either. The doctor sent him home with a clean bill of health.
Lau was no better, really. Later the diagnosis of GERD was proven incorrect.

Diagnosis errors

"The chance of misdiagnosis in rare diseases could be more than 80 percent," Lam
said, citing his own research data. "That definitely affects patients' health.
Sometimes it leads to early and often sudden demise."

In 2001, Zhu Gang, a main player in the Chinese national volleyball team died of
sudden rupture of his aorta. He was in his 30s. In 1996, Jonathan Larson, famed
American choreographer and winner of a Tony Award and a Pulitzer Prize, died
unexpectedly. Doctors later concluded Larson died from undiagnosed Marfan
syndrome.

Lau said had he not gone back to the hospital for another test after
experiencing chest pains, he might have died. A CT scan showed significant
swelling of Lau's aortal veins leading to the heart. The aortic diameter of
people at Lau's age is about two or three centimeters, while Lau's had reached
eight centimeters. The aortal veins could have burst at any time.

"A doctor told me that I needed surgery immediately, or I would die." Lau
recalled. That night surgeons were called back to the hospital to perform an
emergency operation.

Doctors suspected it was Marfan syndrome but couldn't be positive without
further examination. Marfan syndrome requires a gene test to establish a
definitive diagnosis. Weakness of the connective tissues may lead to the
dysfunction of other organs, the cardiovascular system, the eyes, even the
bones.

"His body is like a house built with inferior cement. Once the cement is
non-functional, all parts are affected, leaving the entire house ready to fall
down," explains Lau's wife Olga Chew. They were married only two years when Lau
had his first surgery. Chew, however, put on a brave face and promised Lau her
lifetime support.

A hazy area

The Marfan Syndrome Association in Hong Kong states that one in 5,000 people
have the syndrome, citing statistics published by the National Marfan Foundation
in the United States. That would point to about 1,400 cases in Hong Kong,
assuming they are alive. But these obviously aren't official figures.

The city does not have a database of statistics nor an official definition of
the about 6,000 other rare diseases identified globally.

According to the World Health Organization, in every 10,000 people, 6.5 to 10
suffer from rare diseases. That implies that in Hong Kong about 45 newborn
infants every year are born with a rare disease, extrapolated from births
averaging 45,000 per year, says Lam, the pathologist from the University of Hong
Kong.

"But the actual number must be higher. Some patients may die before they are
diagnosed... 150 to 200 rare diseases have been diagnosed in Hong Kong but the
actual number is higher.

"There is no special hospital for genetic experts in Hong Kong. Doctors who are
not specialized in genetics have difficulty verifying rare diseases." Lam
explained. "The courses taught in medical schools cover only the most common
diseases, such as diabetes, cardiovascular disease and cancer. It all depends on
whether or not a doctor has knowledge of rare diseases (related to the
symptoms)," Lam added.

Only six medicines for four kinds of rare diseases are listed on the Hospital
Authority Drug Formulary. Patients authorized to use them are given financial
assistance. Taiwan, however, has identified 204 rare diseases and established
specific definitions for them. Taiwan provides 85 medicines for about 1,000
rare-disease-afflicted patients as of December 2014.

Due to the lack of market demand and because of the prolonged research and
development phase, private pharmaceutical companies seem to be disinterested in
producing medicines for rare diseases.

Even the medicines listed on Hong Kong's Hospital Authority Drug Formulary
aren't always available. Neither are specialist doctors under the Hospital
Authority ready to prescribe these.

"Only if the team confirms that the medicine will benefit a patient in a
specific stage of the disease in an obvious way will they authorize that
medicine," said Lam. Even he won't be able to predict whether or not a medicine
might have a specific impact on a patient, he added.

New rights group

The last day of February is marked as International Rare Diseases Day. The Hong
Kong Alliance for Rare Diseases was established on that day this year, with a
mission to urge the government to protect the human rights of this largely
unrepresented group.

Chung Hon-yin, clinic associate professor at the Department of Paediatrics and
Adolescent Medicine, University of Hong Kong, joined the association as a board
member. A specialist in clinical genetics, Chung has been actively involved in
training frontline doctors and nurses.

"Early detection and even early diagnosis are significant to a patient of rare
disease. I would like to vouch for this smattering of a voiceless group," Chung
says.

Lam says an undiagnosed disease program at the medical school of the University
of Hong Kong, has been providing clinical help to patients with rare diseases
since November 2014, on a two-year grant from the S.K. Yee Medical Foundation.

"Before I know I have Manfan syndrome, I had a long-term plan for my life. But
now I'm living in a different way," says Lau, who was just notified by his
doctor that he will require further cardiac surgery in the next two or three
years.

He cannot allow himself to think of a long-term future but must live for today.
He says he is happy and he considers the quality of life to be of higher value
than his life expectancy. He and his wife quit their jobs three years ago.
Together, they are pursuing what interests them the most. "We're now learning
ceramics, photography, drawing," say Lau, who breaks into smile talking about
his wife. "I'm like a bomb that may explode at any time. But I have no fear
now."

Contact the writer at sylvia@chinadailyhk.com

(HK Edition 04/01/2015 page8)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1495


                    Copyright 2015 China Daily Information.
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              22 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          Daily Record and Sunday Mail

                           February 28, 2015 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

My heart was breaking when Ava's condition got so bad she couldn't hold a pen
and asked me to draw for her;
RARE DISEASES HOW PATIENTS AND PARENTS COPE WITH LITTLE-KNOWN ILLNESES

BYLINE: VIVIENNE AITKEN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 34,35

LENGTH: 1991 words


THERE are more than 6000 recognised rare diseases in the world - most of which
are genetic. And while each one may have no more than a handful of sufferers,
one in 17 people will be affected by a rare disease. This adds up to 3.5million
people in the UK - 300,000 in Scotland.

Around 30 per cent of patients die before their fifth birthday and living with a
rare disease can be a struggle emotionally, financially and socially as well as
clinically. Today is Rare Diseases Day and the theme this year is Living with a
Rare Disease. Rare Disease UK (RDUK) are the national alliance for people with
rare diseases and all who support them. They believe everyone living with a rare
disease should receive high quality services, treatment and support. RDUK are
campaigning with health departments across the UK to implement the UK Strategy
for Rare Diseases to ensure that patients and families living with these
conditions have equitable access to effective services.

Key features of the UK Strategy for Rare Diseases, which was published in
November 2013, include: ? Making sure patients and their families and carers
have the information they need, are listened to and consulted ? Developing
better methods of identifying and preventing rare diseases ? Improving diagnosis
and earlier intervention for those with a rare disease ? Developing better
coordination of care for those with a rare disease, including joined up
consultation and treatment schedules ? Building on research to improve
personalised approaches to healthcare for those with a rare disease AVA
BROWN-VIALETTO VAN LAERE SYNDROME GRAHAM Jolliffe was heartbroken when his
little girl asked him to draw for her - because she could no longer hold a pen.

Brown-Vialetto Van Laere syndrome has robbed eightyear-old Ava of the ability to
fully control her fingers.

She can no longer speak and is registered blind, though she has just enough
sight to use some sign language.

She can only lift one hand above her head and is no longer able to dress herself
or go to the toilet on her own.

The next and possibly final stage in her deterioration will be respiratory.

There have only been 73 known cases of Brown-Vialetto Van Laere since it was
discovered in 1894. Only 30 children have it worldwide.

known cases discovered worldwide currently A lack of vitamin B2 getting to the
brain causes damage to the nerves, and leads to deterioration similar to that of
motor neurone disease.

Ava was healthy until she had a high fever at the age of three and suffered
nystagmus - vibration of the eyes.

Doctors in Germany, where the family lived at the time, at first thought she had
a brain tumour.

Graham, 45, originally from Glasgow, said: "She is the youngest of our two
daughters and we thought we were lucky to get through pregnancy and birth with
no problems.

"You think after that it will all be plain sailing. She hit the developmental
milestones." The doctors put huge efforts into genetic scanning to find a
diagnosis. The family were then told she could be dead by the age of seven.

As she deteriorated, Ava was unable to keep up with big sister Libby, 10.

Graham said: "Ava was still intelligently sharp and funny. But she was
frustrated because she could no longer do what Libby was able to do.

"She could no longer go on the trampoline or swing herself. She became less and
less able to walk.

"She was no longer able to hold a pen. She couldn't colour in. She would get me
to do drawing for her.

"My heart was breaking."

The age at which BVVLS begins varies from infancy to young adulthood.

73 since it was in 1894.

Ava and all other diagnosed children are having a trial therapy involving
massive doses of B2 to get the vitamin to the brain. In the future, stem cell
therapy may help repair damage to brain cells.

only 30 kids have it.

Graham said: "Since her new treatment she can draw things again now. She is
doing a little bit better than she was before.

"The new treatment seems to be holding all these children in a stable status at
the moment.

"But what brings BVVL on is some kind of crisis. I worry that if she has another
fever her condition will worsen."

He added: "There seems to be a Celtic link and lots of families identified have
had Scottish or Irish parents or grandparents."

AARON ALAGILLE SYNDROME LITTLE Aaron Higgins often LITTLE Aaron Higgins often
has to be carried into school has to be carried into school because his weak
bones make because his weak bones make it too painful for him to walk. it too
painful for him to walk.

The brave six-year-old has a The brave six-year-old has a permanent itch like a
million permanent itch like a million midge bites all over his body midge bites
all over his body and a serious heart condition. and a serious heart condition.

He will need a liver transplant and possibly a heart and lung transplant.

But despite it all, nothing dampens his spirit.

Aaron has Alagille Aaron has Alagille syndrome, which is usually inherited but
in him was a spontaneous spontaneous mutation.

one in 100,000 people." one in 100,000 people." is born with it and there is
born with it and there are only three or four children with it in Scotland.
children with it in Scotland.

A person with Alagille A person with Alagille syndrome has fewer than the
syndrome has fewer than the normal number of small bile normal number of small
bile ducts in the liver. It can also ducts in the liver. It can also cause
heart, eye and skeletal abnormalities.

Aaron has fibrosis in the liver. Aaron has fibrosis in the liver. Rather than
the bile flowing Rather than the bile flowing through the liver, it goes back
through the liver, it goes back into his system and the salt into his system and
the salt in the bile makes him itchy . in the bile makes him itchy . The itch
never goes away. The itch never goes away.

Aaron has had 20 Aaron has had 20 operations so far. His operations so far. His
pulmonary pulmonary stenosis stenosis means the means the veins are veins are
too narrow too narrow to take to take the blood from the heart to the lungs and
causes the heart to swell on one side. This leads to him losing breath when
exercising and his heart rate drops to 40 when he is sleeping.

To rid him of the itching Aaron, from Swinton in Duns, Berwickshire, will need a
liver transplant but it will not cure the disease.

His mum Jacqueline, 42, said: "The itching in particular really has affected his
quality of life.

"He used to be covered in bandages and still wears a vest and leggings 24/7
because if he takes them off, he scratches the skin off himself.

"He scratched so much when he was younger. He rubbed his nose on the bandages
until they burned his face. He would fall asleep on the kitchen tiles because
they were cold.

"He now has a bile drain into his gall bladder to remove bile overnight and that
helps relieve it but it is there all the time."

Tortured by the itching, " Aaron stopped eating at nine months old and has been
fed directly via a peg since he was 18 months old.

Vitamin deficiencies weaken his bones and doctors fear his heart will not be
strong enough to survive a liver transplant.

He is on 50 different types of medication a day.

Yet he is full of life and adore Shis seven-month-old sister Sophia. She has
been tested and does not have the disease.

Jacqueline said: "It is a horrible disease. Since he turned six he has had no
quality of life.

"He told me 'I am fed up 'being sick, Mummy'. I just say, 'The doctors are
working hard to make you better.'" ALASDAIR AND CHLOE FRAGILE X SYNDROME
ALASDAIR AND CHLOE FRAGILE X SYNDROME ALASDAIR Taylor and sister Chloe have
exactly the same rare genetic condition.

They suffer from Fragile X syndrome, which causes severe learning disabilities
and behavioural issues.

But while Alasdair, 22, can quickly be identified as being disabled, Chloe, 18,
has such a good grasp of vocabulary people do not realise she is disabled. This
means she doesn't always get the understanding she needs.

Their mum Pauline, 49, said: "My daughter is pretty unusual. Her vocabulary far
outstrips her level of understanding.

"Chloe appears fine and has pallilalia, which means she repeats chunks of what
she hears.

"It is a coping mechanism. The problem is that because of it, no allowances are
made. When she has an autistic meltdown, even support workers often just don't
understand.

"Recently Chloe became stressed and anxious, a characteristic of the disorder,
and began to swear at a support worker.

"The support worker came up with a piece of paper for my daughter to sign to say
she must speak to others the way she would want to be spoken to. But she doesn't
understand.

"They wouldn't do that to my son for the same type of behaviour. But Chloe's IQ
is 46, which is extremely low.

Fragile X usually affects males more severely than females. one in 4000 boys
carries the gene compared with one in 8000 girls.

Those affected tend to have delayed speech development. Children may have
anxiety and hyperactive behaviour.

Pauline, from Busby, "East Renfrewshire, said: "Alasdair swears a lot. It is
almost like Tourette's. Both my son and daughter have the autism diagnosis with
Fragile X." Alasdair and Chloe both have a computing qualification equivalent to
standard grade.

Pauline helps Chloe to run a business making blankets for people with dementia
and hopes Alasdair will join.

She said: "Chloe gets excited about it. It gives her a sense of purpose and she
realises she is helping other people."

ANTONIA COWDEN'S DISEASE WHEN Antonia Palmer suffered a series of agonising
headaches, she opted to grin and bear it.

It wasn't until the age of 34 that she learned she had Cowden's disease - a rare
illness which puts her a higher risk of cancer.

The disease - which affects only one in 200,000 - had gone undetected since
birth.

It affects people in different ways. But in Antonia's case the cerebellum - the
part of the brain responsible for motor control and some cognitive functions -
had overgrown and developed a hamartoma, a type of benign tumour.

She also had hydrocephaclus, which develops when the flow and absorption of
cerebrospinal fluid in the brain is blocked.

Had it not been for the hydrocephalus, which affects her balance, her Cowden's
may have gone undiagnosed.

Antonia from Comely Bank, Edinburgh, said: "I had a lot of headaches in my
twenties but just thought, 'That's life.' "You kind of adapt to things. But my
headaches got so bad I went to my doctor and my optician.

"It was my optician who said my optic nerve was very swollen. He referred me to
the eye hospital and they in turn referred me to neurology. They discovered I
had hydrocephalus and I had an operation in 2006."

People with Cowden's are at particular risk of breast, thyroid and endometrial
cancers.

Antonia said: "I have to have regular checkups for all these things, including
ultrasounds of my pelvis to check my womb, and I get regular MRI scans to detect
any changes in my head.

"Nobody knows if Cowden's itself is life limiting. The doctors and I are
learning together a lot of the time."

Cowden's is associated with mutations in the tumour-fighting gene PTEN, causing
it not to work properly.

Full-time work is impossible for Antonia due to her hospital appointments and
mobility problems.

She fears for the future if her cerebellum begins to grow again.

Antonia said: "Having an operation is quite scary but if someone says you need a
brain operation it is particularly scary.

"You hear about tumours and you automatically think of death and disablement but
that's not always the case.

"I fear my cerebellum will grow and I don't want to get cancer - no one does."

The age at begins infancy t in massive B2 to been 73 Brown- 73 known cases since
it was discovered in 1894. Worldwide only 30 kids currently have it.

to take to take the one in 100,000 people is born with it and there are only
three or four children with it in Scotland.

one in 200,000 is affected by Cowden's diseasebe in onein 8000 girls. has the
full blown disorder although others may be carriers

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BRAV AVA EBOY Aaron with mum JacquelineSUPPORTIVE Pauline with Chloe
and Alasdair

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DRC


             Copyright 2015 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              23 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                               dailyrecord.co.uk

                    February 28, 2015 Saturday 11:52 AM GMT

Rare diseases: How patients and parents cope with with little-known illnesses;
ONE in 17 people in the world suffer from a rare disease and 30,000 of those
people live in Scotland. Today is Rare Diseases Day and we speak to some of
those affected by these little-known conditions.

BYLINE: By Vivienne Aitken

SECTION: NEWS,REAL LIFE

LENGTH: 1795 words


THERE are more than 6000 recognised rare diseases in the world - most of which
are genetic.

And while each one may have no more than a handful of sufferers, one in 17
people will be affected by a rare disease. This adds up to 3.5million people in
the UK - 300,000 in Scotland.

Around 30 per cent of patients die before their fifth birthday and living with a
rare disease can be a struggle emotionally, financially and socially as well as
clinically.

Today is Rare Diseases Day and the theme this year is Living with a Rare
Disease.

Rare Disease UK (RDUK) are the national alliance for people with rare diseases
and all who support them.

They believe everyone living with a rare disease should receive high quality
services, treatment and support.

RDUK are campaigning with health departments across the UK to implement the UK
Strategy for Rare Diseases to ensure that patients and families living with
these conditions have equitable access to effective services.

Key features of the UK Strategy for Rare Diseases, which was published in
November 2013, include:

[#x25cf] Making sure patients and their families and carers have the information
they need, are listened to and consulted

[#x25cf] Developing better methods of identifying and preventing rare diseases

[#x25cf] Improving diagnosis and earlier intervention for those with a rare
disease

[#x25cf] Developing better coordination of care for those with a rare disease,
including joined up consultation and treatment schedules

[#x25cf] Building on research to improve personalised approaches to healthcare
for those with a rare disease

Are you or a member of your family living with a rare disease?Ava:
Brown-Vialetto Van Laere Syndrome

Graham Jolliffe was heartbroken when his little girl asked him to draw for her -
because she could no longer hold a pen.

Brown-Vialetto Van Laere syndrome has robbed eight-year-old Ava of the ability
to fully control her fingers.

She can no longer speak and is registered blind, though she has just enough
sight to use some sign language.

She can only lift one hand above her head and is no longer able to dress herself
or go to the toilet on her own.

The next and possibly final stage in her ­deterioration will be ­respiratory.

There have only been 73 known cases of Brown-Vialetto Van Laere since it was
discovered in 1894. Only 30 children have it worldwide.

A lack of vitamin B2 getting to the brain causes damage to the nerves, and leads
to deterioration similar to that of motor neurone disease.

Ava was healthy until she had a high fever at the age of three and ­suffered
nystagmus - ­vibration of the eyes.

Doctors in Germany, where the family lived at the time, at first thought she had
a brain tumour.

Graham, 45, originally from Glasgow, said: "She is the youngest of our two
daughters and we thought we were lucky to get through pregnancy and birth with
no problems.

"You think after that it will all be plain sailing. She hit the developmental
milestones." The doctors put huge efforts into genetic scanning to find a
­diagnosis. The family were then told she could be dead by the age of seven.

As she deteriorated, Ava was unable to keep up with big sister Libby, 10.

Graham said: "Ava was still intelligently sharp and funny. But she was
frustrated because she could no longer do what Libby was able to do.

"She could no longer go on the trampoline or swing herself. She became less and
less able to walk.

"She was no longer able to hold a pen. She couldn't colour in. She would get me
to do drawing for her.

"My heart was breaking."

The age at which BVVLS begins varies from infancy to young adulthood.

Ava and all other diagnosed children are having a trial therapy involving
massive doses of B2 to get the vitamin to the brain.

In the future, stem cell therapy may help repair damage to brain cells.

Graham said: "Since her new treatment she can draw things again now. She is
doing a little bit better than she was before.

"The new treatment seems to be holding all these children in a stable status at
the moment.

"But what brings BVVL on is some kind of crisis. I worry that if she has another
fever her condition will worsen."

He added: "There seems to be a Celtic link and lots of ­families identified have
had Scottish or Irish parents or grandparents."

Aaron: Alagille Syndrome

LITTLE Aaron Higgins often has to be carried into school because his weak bones
make it too painful for him to walk.

The brave six-year-old has a permanent itch like a million midge bites all over
his body and a serious heart condition.

He will need a liver ­transplant and possibly a heart and lung transplant.

But despite it all, nothing dampens his spirit.

Aaron has Alagille syndrome, which is usually inherited but in him was a
­spontaneous mutation.

One in 100,000 people is born with it and there are only three or four ­children
with it in Scotland.

A person with Alagille syndrome has fewer than the normal number of small bile
ducts in the liver. It can also cause heart, eye and skeletal abnormalities.

Aaron has fibrosis in the liver. Rather than the bile flowing through the liver,
it goes back into his system and the salt in the bile makes him itchy. The itch
never goes away.

Aaron has had 20 ­operations so far. His pulmonary ­stenosis means the veins are
too narrow to take the blood from the heart to the lungs and causes the heart to
swell on one side. This leads to him losing breath when exercising and his heart
rate drops to 40 when he is sleeping.

To rid him of the itching Aaron, from Swinton in Duns, Berwickshire, will need a
liver transplant but it will not cure the disease.

His mum Jacqueline, 42, said: "The itching in particular really has affected his
quality of life.

"He used to be covered in bandages and still wears a vest and leggings 24/7
because if he takes them off, he scratches the skin off himself.

"He scratched so much when he was younger. He rubbed his nose on the bandages
until they burned his face. He would fall asleep on the kitchen tiles because
they were cold.

"He now has a bile drain into his gall bladder to remove bile overnight and that
helps relieve it but it is there all the time."

Tortured by the itching, Aaron stopped eating at nine months old and has been
fed directly via a peg since he was 18 months old.

Vitamin deficiencies weaken his bones and doctors fear his heart will not be
strong enough to survive a liver transplant.

He is on 50 different types of medication a day.

Yet he is full of life and adores his seven-month-old sister Sophia. She has
been tested and does not have the disease.

Jacqueline said: "It is a horrible disease. Since he turned six he has had no
quality of life.

"He told me 'I am fed up being sick, Mummy'. I just say, 'The doctors are
working hard to make you better.'"

Alisdair and Chloe: Fragile X Syndrome

Alasdair Taylor and sister Chloe have exactly the same rare genetic condition.

They suffer from Fragile X syndrome, which causes severe learning disabilities
and behavioural issues.

But while Alasdair, 22, can quickly be identified as being disabled, Chloe, 18,
has such a good grasp of vocabulary people do not realise she is disabled. This
means she doesn't always get the ­understanding she needs.

Their mum Pauline, 49, said: "My daughter is pretty unusual. Her vocabulary far
outstrips her level of understanding.

"Chloe appears fine and has pallilalia, which means she repeats chunks of what
she hears.

"It is a coping mechanism. The problem is that because of it, no allowances are
made. When she has an autistic meltdown, even support workers often just don't
understand.

"Recently Chloe became stressed and anxious, a ­characteristic of the disorder,
and began to swear at a support worker.

"The support worker came up with a piece of paper for my daughter to sign to say
she must speak to others the way she would want to be spoken to. But she doesn't
understand.

"They wouldn't do that to my son for the same type of behaviour. But Chloe's IQ
is 46, which is extremely low.

Fragile X usually affects males more severely than females. One in 4000 boys
carries the gene compared with one in 8000 girls.

Those affected tend to have delayed speech ­development. Children may have
anxiety and hyperactive ­behaviour.

Pauline, from Busby, East Renfrewshire, said: "Alasdair swears a lot. It is
almost like Tourette's. Both my son and daughter have the autism diagnosis with
Fragile X." Alasdair and Chloe both have a computing qualification equivalent to
standard grade.

Pauline helps Chloe to run a business making blankets for people with dementia
and hopes Alasdair will join.

She said: "Chloe gets excited about it. It gives her a sense of purpose and she
realises she is helping other people."

Antonia: Cowden's Disease

WHEN Antonia Palmer suffered a series of agonising headaches, she opted to grin
and bear it.

It wasn't until the age of 34 that she learned she had Cowden's disease - a rare
illness which puts her a higher risk of cancer.

The disease - which affects only one in 200,000 - had gone undetected since
birth.

It affects people in different ways. But in Antonia's case the cerebellum - the
part of the brain responsible for motor control and some cognitive functions -
had overgrown and developed a hamartoma, a type of benign tumour.

She also had hydrocephaclus, which develops when the flow and absorption of
cerebrospinal fluid in the brain is blocked.

Had it not been for the hydrocephalus, which affects her balance, her Cowden's
may have gone undiagnosed.

Antonia from Comely Bank, Edinburgh, said: "I had a lot of headaches in my
twenties but just thought, 'That's life.'

"You kind of adapt to things. But my headaches got so bad I went to my doctor
and my optician.

"It was my optician who said my optic nerve was very swollen. He referred me to
the eye hospital and they in turn referred me to neurology. They discovered I
had hydrocephalus and I had an operation in 2006."

People with Cowden's are at particular risk of breast, thyroid and endometrial
cancers.

Antonia said: "I have to have regular check- ups for all these things, including
ultrasounds of my pelvis to check my womb, and I get regular MRI scans to detect
any changes in my head.

"Nobody knows if Cowden's itself is life limiting. The doctors and I are
learning together a lot of the time."

Cowden's is associated with mutations in the tumour-fighting gene PTEN, causing
it not to work properly.

Full-time work is impossible for Antonia due to her hospital appointments and
mobility problems.

She fears for the future if her cerebellum begins to grow again.

Antonia said: "Having an operation is quite scary but if someone says you need a
brain operation it is particularly scary.

"You hear about tumours and you automatically think of death and disablement but
that's not always the case.

"I fear my cerebellum will grow and I don't want to get cancer - no one does."

Quick Quiz: News 27/2/15

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDAR


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              24 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                             July 5, 2014 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Rida's battle in world of darkness

BYLINE: Anuji Varma

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16,17

LENGTH: 789 words


SCHOOLGIRL Rida Shah feels around her mum's arm and nds her watch.

Relieved, the eight-year-old gives Iram a huge hug.

It's the only way the youngster recognises her mum.

For Rida has a life-limiting condition known as Alstrom Syndrome, which has left
her completely blind.

With only 60 other su[#x192]erers in the UK, and a one in a million chance of
being born with the genetic condition, the bubbly girl is one of the unlucky
ones.

It is not only loss of vision that is a devastating symptom of the syndrome.
Su[#x192]erers also have problems with their blood sugar, which can cause
diabetes and obesity. Rida is obese and has been recently diagnosed with
diabetes.

Mum-of-two Iram, 35, of Dudley, said: "It's a slow, debilitating and monstrous
condition.

"As she is getting older, she is becoming worse. Since Rida became blind, she
feels di[#x192]erent things on people so she knows who they are.

"With me, she feels for my watch and then will realise who I am.

"She recognises her dad by touching his hands. She feels the back of her
brother's head and his ears, then knows that's him.

"With teachers, they wear particular bracelets so she can recognise them by
feeling them. "Even though she has this condition, she is a very happy child.
She loves trampolining or going on the swings.

"I worry because she is blind but she really enjoys them. She seems to have a
sixth sense."

"  Iram and husband Ejaz, 42,rst knew there was something wrong with their
daughter when she was nine months old.

-e mum-of-two, who works for the charity Alstrom Syndrome UK as a family support
manager, recalled: "Everything was ne with the pregnancy.

"It was when Rida was about nine months old that I noticed she had wobbly eyes,
which is called nystagmus.

"She didn't like being near light. She would be upset, scratch her eyes and cry.

"After going to the GP, Rida was referred to the visual impairment service.
Someone came out to see her and performed some tests on her.

"-ey found she wasn't focusing on her toys - she had no interest in her cot
mobile, for example.

"Rida was referred to a geneticist at Birmingham Children's Hospital where
further tests found she had Alstrom Syndrome."

Both my husband and I were carriers of the gene.

"I had never heard of Alstrom, but when I heard the word syndrome, it got me
scared. I was crying, and it was all a bit of a blur.

"We were referred to Alstrom Syndrome UK where I met other children with the
condition. Some of them were completely blind and it was then I knew that was to
come for Rida."

-e youngster, who attends Pens Meadow Special School in Stourbridge, nally went
completely blind last year.

But because she has learning di[#x161]culties, she found it di[#x161]cult to
communicate to her mum what was going on.

"Rida was unable to tell me what was happening so I had to work it out. She
started bumping into things and the light didn't really a[#x192]ect her any
more," explained Iram.

-e youngster is assessed and monitored at Birmingham Children's Hospital and
will then be transferred to the Queen Elizabeth Hospital (QEHB) in Edgbaston
baston when she is 16 years old. There is currently no cure for the syndrome.

when she is 16 years old. -ere is currently no cure for the syndrome.

The new Rare Disease Centre at the hospital, due to open next year, will be a
lifeline for many, Iram believes.

-e new Rare Disease Centreat the hospital, due to open next year, will be a
lifeline for many, Iram believes.

"The centre will be fabulous. We will get to meet other patients in similar
situations to us," she said.

"-e centre will be fabulous. We will get to meet other patients in similar
situations to us," she said.

"Having a rare disease in the family can be a lonely thing for many. This centre
will be a lifeline for many parents.

"Having a rare disease in the family can be a lonely thing for many. -is centre
will be a lifeline for many parents.

"I work for the charity and I am lucky because we have a lot of support around
us.

"The research that will be available will also be a great thing."

Justine Davy, head of fundraising at QEHB Charity, said: "It's wonderful to see
scaffolding go up and work begin to start on the Institute of Translational
Medicine which will be the 'home' of the Rare Disease Centre.

"We are now on a 12-month countdown so it's vital that we get the funds in to
create this wonderful centre.

"Please become a friend to patients and their families and help to make the
challenge of living with a rare disease a little easier.

"If every reader signs up to be a Friend of the Rare Disease Centre, we will
raise over £625,000 and be over halfway to our £1m target.

"Thank you so much in advance for your support."

'"Having a rare disease in the family can be a lonely thing. This centre will be
a lifeline for parents. IRAM SHAH

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Rida Shah plays on her swing with parents Ejaz and Iram

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BMM


               Copyright 2014 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved


                              25 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                    The Laurinburg Exchange (North Carolina)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                            February 26, 2017 Sunday

Laurinburg vigil planned for rare diseases

BYLINE: The Laurinburg Exchange, N.C.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 398 words


Feb. 26--LAURINBURG -- Chaka Davis Smith was totally in the dark about Jeune
Syndrome when a doctor diagnosed her two-year-old son Tristan Brown with the
rare disease in 2010 -- the only person in the state diagnosed with the disease
that year.

Some seven years later, the Tristan Brown ABC's of Rare Diseases Foundation will
hold its annual candlelight vigil Tuesday to raise awareness about that illness
and other rare diseases.

Earlier this week, Laurinburg Mayor Matthew Block signed a proclamation to
recognize Rare Disease Day in the city.

As part of National Rare Disease Day, the vigil will be held at 6 p.m. at the
James Lot, 333 Main Street, in Laurinburg. The public is welcome.

Even though it's a rare condition, Smith said she found comfort in other
families who were going through the same turmoil. Jeune Syndrome is estimated to
occur in one out of every 100,000-130,000 live births among all ethnic
populations.

Jeune Syndrome is a genetic disorder that affects the way a child's cartilage
and bones develop particularly the rib cage, pelvis, arms and legs. The disease
also attacks the child's kidneys which over time results in renal failure.

"To experience the challenges of a child with a rare condition is heartbreaking
because you do not know how the child is feeling," she said. "To meet families
of children with rare conditions while being in the hospital, gave a sense of
comfort and you can relate to situations.

Two years after being diagnosed, Tristan passed away. After the death of her
son, Smith and her mother the Rev. Essie Davis, started The Tristan Brown ABC's
of Rare Diseases Foundation.

"I begin this foundation with my faith in God to help families who have children
with rare conditions, who have long stays in the hospital and need shelter such
as the Ronald McDonald House," Smith said. "We provide funding to places like
the Ronald McDonald House and Children Flight of Hope because I was once one of
those families who needed financial assistance while being close to Tristan."

RECOMMENDED FOR YOU

9:03 am       |

Laurinburg vigil planned for rare diseases

8:34 am       |

Rep. Goodman: HB2 repeal uphill battle

6:16 pm       |

Maxton teens charged after high-speed chase with police

___ (c)2017 The Laurinburg Exchange (Laurinburg, N.C.) Visit The Laurinburg
Exchange (Laurinburg, N.C.) at www.laurinburgexchange.com Distributed by Tribune
Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20170226-1LX-Laurinburg-vigil-planned-for-rare-diseases-0226-20170226

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1LX


                     Copyright 2017 The Laurinburg Exchange


                              26 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                 irishmirror.ie

                       March 5, 2016 Saturday 3:52 PM GMT

Limerick woman tells how she had miracle life-saving operation after being
diagnosed at a conference;
Rachel Martin underwent emergency heart surgery after a miracle saved her life

BYLINE: By Maeve Quigley

SECTION: NEWS,IRISH NEWS

LENGTH: 618 words


A woman who suffers from a rare genetic condition has told how doctors saved her
life by diagnosing her at a conference.

Rachel Martin, 35, from Limerick, was born with congenital muscle problems and
had always been told that she suffered from Marfan Syndrome.

But while at a conference in America to discover more about her illness, Rachel
was told that she had a different condition and needed emergency life-saving
surgery on her heart.

Rachel said: "I was clinically diagnosed with Marfan Syndrome as I have quite a
few of the clinical attributes of the condition but I don't fit the criteria
properly.

"I went to a Marfan conference in Boston in 2008 and I was very fortunate to
meet experts there who were able to tell me that actually I didn't have Marfan
Syndrome but another similar condition called Loeys-Dietz Syndrome."

Read more: Meet Teegan - the teenager who can never smile

The diagnosis meant that Rachel was in serious danger of the main artery to her
heart tearing - and if she hadn't discovered this, she would not be here today.

Rachel said: "In the same breath that those doctors told me I had Loeys-Dietz
Syndrome, I was told I needed to get home and have aortic surgery and waste no
more time.

"If I hadn't been diagnosed and had the surgery, I would not be here today as if
my aorta had torn or dissected, I would only have had a 20 per cent chance of
survival if I had got to a hospital on time."

Rachel was telling her story as part of International Rare Disease Day where
experts called on the next Government to radically overhaul genetic services in
Ireland and to ramp up implementation of the National Rare Disease Plan.

There are over 6,000 rare diseases in existence in Ireland affecting
300,000-plus children and adults.

Around 80 per cent of these patients are affected by just 350 rare diseases.

Philip Watt, chair of the Rare Disease Task Force, said genetic disease services
here are under-resourced.

He said: "The National Rare Disease Plan was launched in July 2014, yet almost
two years on, many of its recommendations remain to be implemented.

Read more: Brave Dublin dad determined to show there is life after getting
stroke

"The resourcing of clinical genetics services in Ireland is fundamental to the
diagnosis, care and treatment of people with rare diseases.

"Right now, my understanding is that there are several hundred families sitting
on critically-long genetics waiting lists for over 15 months in clear breach of
HSE waiting times.

"We need to see information on waiting lists for genetic services being made
publicly available so that we can put in place the appropriate resourcing of
this crucial speciality.

"Without access to genetic services, diagnosis is severely delayed preventing
access to appropriate ongoing referrals for management and treatment, and vital
support services."

Read more: Mother caring for disabled daughter hit with (EURO)77k bill for
working too many hours

Avril Daly, Chair of the Genetic and Rare Disorders Organisation, said there
were many others out there like Rachel who were suffering because of lack of
proper genetic diagnosis.

She said: "In real terms delays in diagnosis mean that a patient may go past the
point where a treatment can be impactful for them and, if there is no genetic
diagnosis at all, they are unaware of their treatment options.

"We need answers soon from the next Government and not in the distant future. We
cannot wait any longer."

International Rare Disease Day is co-ordinated by EURORDIS, a European alliance
of patient organisations, and takes place in more than 80 countries around the
globe.

For more information visit www.grdo.ie or www.raredisease.ie.

What do you think? Let us know in our comments section below

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBMGNIRIS


                      Copyright 2016 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              27 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                 irishmirror.ie

                      February 29, 2016 Monday 8:22 PM GMT

Limerick woman tells how she had miracle life-saving operation after being
diagnosed at a conference;
Rachel Martin underwent emergency heart surgery after a miracle saved her life

BYLINE: By Maeve Quigley

SECTION: NEWS,IRISH NEWS

LENGTH: 618 words


A woman who suffers from a rare genetic condition has told how doctors saved her
life by diagnosing her at a conference.

Rachel Martin, 35, from Limerick, was born with congenital muscle problems and
had always been told that she suffered from Marfan Syndrome.

But while at a conference in America to discover more about her illness, Rachel
was told that she had a different condition and needed emergency life-saving
surgery on her heart.

Rachel said: "I was clinically diagnosed with Marfan Syndrome as I have quite a
few of the clinical attributes of the condition but I don't fit the criteria
properly.

"I went to a Marfan conference in Boston in 2008 and I was very fortunate to
meet experts there who were able to tell me that actually I didn't have Marfan
Syndrome but another similar condition called Loews-Dietz Syndrome."

Read more: Meet Teegan - the teenager who can never smile

The diagnosis meant that Rachel was in serious danger of the main artery to her
heart tearing - and if she hadn't discovered this, she would not be here today.

Rachel said: "In the same breath that those doctors told me I had Loews-Dietz
Syndrome, I was told I needed to get home and have aortic surgery and waste no
more time.

"If I hadn't been diagnosed and had the surgery, I would not be here today as if
my aorta had torn or dissected, I would only have had a 20 per cent chance of
survival if I had got to a hospital on time."

Rachel was telling her story as part of International Rare Disease Day where
experts called on the next Government to radically overhaul genetic services in
Ireland and to ramp up implementation of the National Rare Disease Plan.

There are over 6,000 rare diseases in existence in Ireland affecting
300,000-plus children and adults.

Around 80 per cent of these patients are affected by just 350 rare diseases.

Philip Watt, chair of the Rare Disease Task Force, said genetic disease services
here are under-resourced.

He said: "The National Rare Disease Plan was launched in July 2014, yet almost
two years on, many of its recommendations remain to be implemented.

Read more: Brave Dublin dad determined to show there is life after getting
stroke

"The resourcing of clinical genetics services in Ireland is fundamental to the
diagnosis, care and treatment of people with rare diseases.

"Right now, my understanding is that there are several hundred families sitting
on critically-long genetics waiting lists for over 15 months in clear breach of
HSE waiting times.

"We need to see information on waiting lists for genetic services being made
publicly available so that we can put in place the appropriate resourcing of
this crucial speciality.

"Without access to genetic services, diagnosis is severely delayed preventing
access to appropriate ongoing referrals for management and treatment, and vital
support services."

Read more: Mother caring for disabled daughter hit with (EURO)77k bill for
working too many hours

Avril Daly, Chair of the Genetic and Rare Disorders Organisation, said there
were many others out there like Rachel who were suffering because of lack of
proper genetic diagnosis.

She said: "In real terms delays in diagnosis mean that a patient may go past the
point where a treatment can be impactful for them and, if there is no genetic
diagnosis at all, they are unaware of their treatment options.

"We need answers soon from the next Government and not in the distant future. We
cannot wait any longer."

International Rare Disease Day is co-ordinated by EURORDIS, a European alliance
of patient organisations, and takes place in more than 80 countries around the
globe.

For more information visit www.grdo.ie or www.raredisease.ie.

What do you think? Let us know in our comments section below

LOAD-DATE: February 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBMGNIRIS


                      Copyright 2016 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              28 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                      Times of India (Electronic Edition)

                            February 29, 2016 Monday
                               Ahmedabad Edition

'Need for policy on rare disorders'

SECTION: TIMES CITY

LENGTH: 182 words


Hunter syndrome and Hurler syndrome these are the diseases which

affect one person in two lakh, but the patients and their kins suffer since
diagnosis is difficult due to lack of medication, awareness and symptoms that
are similar to ear infections, runny noses, and cold.

City's doctors to mark the

mark the 'International Rare disease Day' on Sunday discussed the issue of
patients afflicted with rare diseases and concluded that government should come
up with a national policy on this matter. "There are 7,000 rare diseases and in
India alone 70 million people have been affected by rare disease. But since they
are scattered they have no voice or impact on the society or to the government.
This means that one out of every 20 persons is affected with rare disease," Dr
Jayesh Sheth, expert in Genetics and Endocrinology, said. "In 80% of the cases
the origin of such diseases are genetic hence chances of recurrence within the
family is 25% to 50%. Since these diseases are rare pharmaceutical companies do
not see much financial gain and are not interested in developing drugs Sheth
added.

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              29 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                           Philippines Daily Inquirer

                              March 2, 2015 Monday

Filipinos with rare ailments seek gov't help

LENGTH: 801  words


They stand no more than three feet and look remarkably alikesame coarse facial
features, short neck and fisted hands.

It is easy to assume they are just young, maturelooking triplets. But they're
not.

John Paul and Peter John Parco, who are twins, are 16, while their brother
Vicente Jr. is a year younger. The three suffer from Hunter syndrome, a rare and
serious genetic disorder that strikes when an enzyme the body needs is missing
or is not working properly. The disease primarily affects males.

Apart from changes in facial and anatomical features and stunted growth, people
with Hunter syndrome suffer from mental retardation, progressive hearing loss
and thickening of the heart valves leading to a decline in cardiac function,
obstructive airway disease and enlargement of the liver and spleen.

Improve quality of life

"Just like other Filipinos suffering from a rare disease, the siblings need
continuous access to therapies that could improve their quality of life. At the
moment this is next to impossible given the fact that little is known about rare
diseases. There are very few specific treatments available and when there are,
they are very expensive and thus out of reach of the majority of patients," said
Cynthia Magdaraog, president of the Philippine Society for Orphan Disorders
(PSOD), a nonprofit organization founded in 2006.

Magdaraog explained that a disease or disorder is considered rare if it affects
one in 20,000 individuals, as defined by the Institute of Human Genetics of the
National Institutes of Health, University of the Philippines Manila.

In the case of Hunter syndrome, around 2,000 people worldwide have been known to
have this disease, with about 20 recorded in the Philippines.

On Feb. 28, the world marked the Rare Disease Day, an annual observance that
started in 2007 to raise awareness of rare diseases, increase international
cooperation in the field of clinical and scientific research, and share
scientific knowledge on all rare diseases.

Rare Disease Act

In the Philippines, families and doctors of patients with rare disease are
hoping for the passage of the "Rare Disease Act of 2014," which calls on the
government to make sure that persons with rare diseases will be given access to
medical treatment and drugs.

Hunter syndrome is just one of the more than 7,000 different types of rare
diseases.

Unfortunately, its cure has yet to be discovered and current treatments
available are just meant to slow the disease's progress and to lessen its
severity.

"Just because a disease is rare doesn't mean it should be disregarded. Patients
often lack access to effective medical care and information, leaving them
feeling isolated and misinformed. Our organization has and will continue to work
hard to address this," Magdaraog said.

According to Magdaraog, who has a 33yearold son suffering from a neuromuscular
disorder called Pompe disease, PSOD has been relentlessly sourcing funds from
foreign and local donors.

The group has arranged with drug companies to make available special food
formulas, medication and enzyme replacement therapies crucial to sustaining and
improving the health of patients with a rare disease.

Realizing that this was not a sustainable solution, Magdaraog sought the help of
several lawmakers a few years ago.

"I know from experience the challenges they face, because I cared for and lost
my youngest son due to complications from a rare congenital disease called
trisomy 13," said Sen. Pia Cayetano in a privilege speech on Feb. 25. Trisomy 13
is a chromosomal disorder that causes developmental delay.

Cayetano, who chairs the Senate committee on women, family relations and gender
equality, said the Parco brothers are currently taking a maintenance drug, and
they are living fairly normal lives. The twins are now in fourthyear high
school, while Vicente is in his third year. Other children affected with rare
diseases do not share the same situation as the Parco brothers, who have been
fortunate enough to receive help and support to sustain the maintenance drugs
they need," said Cayetano, who raised the need to fund healthcare and assistance
for raredisease patients during a recent budget deliberation for the Department
of Health (DOH), proposing that P100 million be taken from the proceeds of the
sin tax for this purpose.

Cayetano said the committee report for the rare disease bill was being finalized
and would be filed soon.

The bill, once signed into law, will not only allocate a portion of Republic Act
No. 10351 or the Sin Tax Reform Act to health services for patients with rare
diseases but will also designate the DOH to establish a National Rare Disease
Registry, which will include an inventory of rare diseases in the country,
information on diagnosed patients, and a list of certified medicines and medical
devices.

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 Philippines Daily Inquirer
                              All Rights Reserved


                              30 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                       June 4, 2015 Thursday 6:30 AM EST

Regulus Initiates Phase I Clinical Study of RG-012, microRNA Therapeutic in
Development for Treatment of Alport Syndrome

LENGTH: 556  words


June 4 -- Regulus Therapeutics Inc. (NASDAQ: RGLS), a biopharmaceutical company
leading the discovery and development of innovative medicines targeting
microRNAs, announced today that dosing has begun in a first-in-human Phase I
clinical study of RG-012, a single stranded, chemically modified oligonucleotide
that binds to and inhibits the function of microRNA-21 ("miR-21").  RG-012 is
being developed by Regulus in a strategic alliance with Genzyme, a Sanofi
company, for the treatment of Alport syndrome, a life-threatening genetic kidney
disease with no approved therapy.  The Phase I clinical study is being conducted
in the United States as a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, single
ascending dose study to evaluate the safety, tolerability and pharmacokinetics
of subcutaneous dosing of RG-012 in healthy volunteers.

"Advancement of RG-012 into the clinic represents an important achievement under
our 'Clinical Map Initiative' and further underscores our focus on discovering
and developing novel microRNA therapies for orphan and rare diseases such as
Alport syndrome," said Paul Grint, M.D., President and Chief Executive Officer
of Regulus.  "We expect that the results from this first-in-human clinical study
of RG-012, combined with our learnings from our natural history of disease study
called ATHENA, will provide the clinical basis for the design of a
proof-of-concept study to monitor the therapeutic effect of RG-012 in Alport
syndrome patients."

Seng Cheng, Ph.D., Head of Research and Early Development of Rare Diseases at
Genzyme, a Sanofi company, added, "MicroRNA therapeutics represent a novel and
exciting new approach for the treatment of rare diseases and the progress made
by Regulus represents a significant milestone for patients with Alport syndrome,
a devastating and debilitating disease.  There are few therapeutic treatment
options for patients with Alport syndrome and we believe that RG-012 entering
the clinic represents an opportunity to make a significant step forward. With
the initiation of this study, Genzyme is excited to continue its leadership in
rare diseases and commitment to innovation for diseases with unmet medical
need."

In addition to the Phase I clinical study, Regulus is currently enrolling Alport
syndrome patients in a natural history of disease study called ATHENA.  With
this study, which has thirteen clinical sites worldwide, Regulus aims to learn
more about the changes in renal function over time in patients with Alport
syndrome.  Data from the ATHENA study will provide the clinical basis for the
design of a Phase II study to monitor the therapeutic effect of RG-012 on the
decline in renal function and time to end-stage renal disease in Alport syndrome
patients.  In addition, Regulus expects that many patients enrolled in ATHENA
will be eligible to enroll in a Phase II proof-of-concept study, which Regulus
expects to initiate under its 'Clinical Map Initiative' following the conclusion
of the Phase I clinical study announced today.

Regulus is responsible for advancing RG-012 to proof-of-concept. At that stage
of development, Sanofi has an exclusive option exercisable after
proof-of-concept to assume worldwide development and commercialization of RG-012
subject to a co-promote right in the United States by Regulus.

Source: Regulus Therapeutics

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2015 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              31 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                              June 18, 2004 Friday

A nightmare without a name;
Fear strikes every parent with a seriously ill child. Imagine how much worse the
ordeal is when doctors don't know what's wrong

BYLINE: ANNE McILROY

SECTION: HEALTH; Rare Diseases; Pg. A17

LENGTH: 939 words


Eight-year-old Palmer Douglas was a toddler when he was diagnosed with a
life-threatening disorder so rare that only about 250 cases have been identified
worldwide.

Against unbelievable odds, both his parents, Randy and Kim, carry a copy of an
extremely rare recessive gene that causes Alström syndrome. Palmer inherited
both copies, and as a result he is prone to obesity and susceptible to diabetes,
heart and kidney failure and liver disease. Some with this disease die in their
teens or early adulthood; most progressively lose their vision through their
childhood.

Palmer is legally blind, although he can see the television up close, read large
print and manage a mean game of Go Fish with enlarged cards. He plays on a
weekly soccer team with the help of a volunteer.

"If he could work on his free kicks, he might score a goal this year," says Mr.
Douglas, who has worked hard to make sure Palmer has as normal a childhood as
possible, as well getting him appropriate medical care.

It hasn't been easy. A significant number of the estimated 6,000 rare diseases
affect children, and many, like Alström syndrome, involve more than one system
in the body. Parents spend years going from specialist to specialist who have
never heard of their child's illness. While a seriously ill child is every
parent's nightmare, coping with a rare disease has unique challenges.

"You are constantly being told people have never heard of it. You end up
teaching the physicians," says Mr. Douglas.

The Douglas family was fortunate in that Palmer was diagnosed when he was two,
but they've met families who didn't know their children had Alström syndrome
until they were teenagers. (They had another child before they found out they
were carriers, but Charles, now 7, didn't get the genes that cause the disease.)
But other families of children with rare diseases are in limbo for years waiting
for a diagnosis.

Kim Cornish, a McGill University researcher, is an expert in several rare
genetic disorders that cause mental retardation in children, including fragile X
syndrome. More than once, she has seen families that have had two or three
children with fragile X, an inherited form of mental retardation, before a
younger sibling is finally diagnosed. Yet early diagnosis can be key in helping
a child develop to his or her full potential. "When it comes to less well-known
syndromes, parents can get quite a raw deal," she says.

Many rare disorders that affect children have their own behavioural quirks.
Children with Angelman syndrome, for example, have trouble talking and have
prolonged paroxysms of inappropriate laughter. Parents have to fight to get the
help their children need at school. At the same time, they have to cope with
their own grief and sense of loss.

Mr. Douglas's way of dealing with his son's illness was to reach out to other
parents of children with Alström syndrome. He helped organize an international
conference, raised money and founded Alström Syndrome Canada, a registered
charity. At times, it was hard. He met families with older kids, and got a
glimpse of where Palmer may be heading. They know families who have lost
children at the ages of 14, 15 and 22.

He also reached out to families across the country with other rare disorders,
becoming the president the Canadian Organization for Rare Disorders, or CORD.

With only 10 families in Canada affected by Alström syndrome, there is little
chance they can solve many of the problems that face people with rare disorders.
But if they join forces with the estimated three million Canadians who suffer
from rare diseases, Mr. Douglas says they could become a force that politicians
and policy-makers would have a harder time ignoring.

So much needs to be done, says Maureen Gaetz-Faubert, founder of CORD. New
legislation to encourage research into new drugs for orphan diseases is
essential, and Canada lags behind the United States and other countries on this.
Patients also need a way to find doctors familiar with their disease. Some sort
of national centre or clinic for people with rare disorders would be a good
first step, she says.

In her case, it took 30 years before doctors determined she had Ehlers-Danlos, a
disease characterized by fragile connective tissue that has left her with severe
gastrointestinal problems. Now she is trying to help her daughter, Renée, 13,
who suffers from the same disorder.

Renée is tiny, about the size of a 10-year-old. She misses school two to three
times a week with flu-like symptoms. For years, she suffered from breathing
problems that doctors believed were caused by asthma. Now tests show asthma is
not a factor. Ms. Gaetz-Faubert says her daughter is slowly being weaned from
the inhaled steroids she has been taking since she was a toddler, but doctors
have no idea what the next step in her treatment will be. She doesn't know any
other people with the syndrome who have similar symptoms.

"I feel so alone," she says.

Four-part seriesAs many as three million Canadians suffer from an estimated
6,000 rare diseases. In a feature on each Health page this week, The Globe and
Mail looks at the difficulties these patients face.

Tuesday: Fighting for their lives. Getting access to new drugs when they become
available.

Wednesday: How do you explain that your skin feels like it's on fire? The
isolation of having a disease no one has ever heard of.

Yesterday: An unusual plea for help. Politicians at a memorial service hear
first-hand about ALS, or Lou Gehrig's disease.

Today: Kids with rare diseases. What happens when your child has a disease that
affects only 250 other people in the world?

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustration

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2004 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              32 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                    The Hamilton Spectator (Ontario, Canada)

                          February 10, 2016 Wednesday
                                 First Edition

When you get a rare disease coverage matters, forum told;
MPP pushing for provincial funding for obscure diseases

BYLINE: Carmela Fragomeni The Hamilton Spectator

SECTION: LOCAL / NEWS; Pg. A4

LENGTH: 530 words


Jessica Fournier finally has a spark of hope. Maybe someday, something can be
done about her seven-year-old son Thomas' Dravet Syndrome, a severe form of
epilepsy.

Fournier was among 46 people with rare disease experience who met in Hamilton
Tuesday with Kitchener-Conestoga Progressive Conservative MPP Michael Harris -
who is touring Ontario with his fight for provincial funding for rare diseases
treatments.

Harris, at the Scleroderma Society for his Hamilton visit, said he's introducing
a private members' motion to create an all-party select committee for rare
disease treatment funding.

"We've seen some great successes on select committees in the past, with mental
health, sexual harassment in the workplace - with a bill now going through on
that," Harris said. "It's important we tackle this issue (rare diseases
treatment funding)..."

Harris heard from sufferers of rare illnesses such as Angelman Syndrome, Tarlov
Cyst Disease, Ehlers-Danlos Syndrome, Phenylketonuria Disorder (PKU),
Scleroderma, and Complex Regional Pain Syndrome (CRPS).

Harris acknowledges some say it's too expensive to treat them, but says, "The
minute your child is diagnosed with a rare disease, that tune changes. How can
you help someone with cancer, but not PKU?"

Fournier, of Burlington, said afterwards, "When you have a child with a rare,
catastrophic condition, you feel helpless. And because of Michael Harris's
efforts I feel a sense of hope.

"We definitely need more awareness raised as well as treatment options ... and I
am confident the #TreatRareDisease campaign will help achieve this. Someone has
just given us a little bit of hope."

Binbrook's Sharon Pierroz was diagnosed with Scleroderma at age 26. She's now 62
and a survivor after being put into palliative care at 30, but somehow pulling
through.

She had to cover expenses, including a wheelchair and medications that used to
cost $1,000 a month. Now, her husband's benefit plan will cover at least $1,500
a month.

Because Scleroderma pulls back connective tissue, she once needed surgery to
correct a pulling that left her unable to close her mouth. But it was considered
cosmetic and not covered. Luckily, another doctor did it for free, she said.
Pierroz is doubtful Harris' efforts will pay off but adds, "I am hopeful he
could be the person to make a difference ... You never know."

Francis Grove of Ajax, who has had PKU since birth, said a new treatment costs
$70,000 a year but it is not accessible.

Sarah Hall, 14, of Hamilton, said her rare Complex Regional Pain Syndrome
(CRPS), which can be triggered by as much as a light touch, "is known as the
suicide disease because too many people can't take the constant feeling of pain,
pain like someone is stabbing you with a knife ..."

Care in the United States costs at least $40,000 US, but Hall hopes OHIP will
approve coverage, and she urged Harris to move quickly.

"I'm already not able to hang out with my friends, have sleepovers, play soccer
or go to the movies ... The longer I have to wait, the greater chance that this
... will go full-body, and my mom will not be able to ever hug me."

For more, see TreatRareDisease.ca.

cfragomeni@thespec.com

905-526-3392 | @CarmatTheSpec

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              33 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                  thespec.com

                            February 9, 2016 Tuesday

Campaign to treat rare diseases hits Hamilton

BYLINE: cfragomeni@thespec.com

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 533 words


Jessica Fournier finally has a spark of hope. Maybe someday, something can be
done about her seven-year-old son Thomas' Dravet Syndrome, a severe form of
epilepsy.

Fournier was among 46 people with rare disease experience who met in Hamilton
Tuesday with Kitchener-Conestoga Progressive Conservative MPP Michael Harris -
who is touring Ontario with his fight for provincial funding for rare diseases
treatments.

Harris, at the Scleroderma Society for his Hamilton visit, said he's introducing
a private members' motion to create an all-party select committee for rare
disease treatment funding.

"We've seen some great successes on select committees in the past, with mental
health, sexual harassment in the workplace - with a bill now going through on
that," Harris said. "It's important we tackle this issue (rare diseases
treatment funding)..."

Harris heard from sufferers of rare illnesses such as Angelman Syndrome, Tarlov
Cyst Disease, Ehlers-Danlos Syndrome, Phenylketonuria Disorder (PKU),
Scleroderma, and Complex Regional Pain Syndrome (CRPS).

Harris acknowledges some say it's too expensive to treat them, but says "The
minute your child is diagnosed with a rare disease, that tune changes. How can
you help someone with cancer, but not PKU?"

Fournier, of Burlington, said afterwards, "When you have a child with a rare,
catastrophic condition, you feel helpless. And because of Michael Harris's
efforts I feel a sense of hope.

"We definitely need more awareness raised as well as treatment options ... and I
am confident the #TreatRareDisease campaign will help achieve this. Someone has
just given us a little bit of hope."

Binbrook's Sharon Pierroz was diagnosed with Scleroderma at age 26. She's now 62
and a survivor after being put into palliative care at 30, but somehow pulling
through.

She had to cover expenses, including a wheelchair and medications that used to
cost $1,000 a month. Now, her husband's benefit plan will cover at least $1,500
a month.

Because Scleroderma pulls back connective tissue, she once needed surgery to
correct a pulling that left her unable to close her mouth. But it was considered
cosmetic and not covered. Luckily, another doctor did it for free, she said.

Pierroz is doubtful Harris' efforts will pay off but adds, "I am hopeful he
could be the person to make a difference ...You never know."

Francis Grove of Ajax, who has had PKU since birth said a new treatment costs
$70,000 a year but it is not accessible.

Sarah Hall, 14, of Hamilton, said her rare Complex Regional Pain Syndrome
(CRPS), which can be triggered by as much as a light touch, "is known as the
suicide disease because too many people can't take the constant feeling of pain,
pain like someone is stabbing you with a knife..."

Care in the United States costs at least $40,000 US, but Hall hopes OHIP will
approve coverage, and she urged Harris to move quickly.

"I'm already not able to hang out with my friends, have sleepovers, play soccer
or go to the movies ... The longer I have to wait, the greater chance that this
... will go full-body, and my mom will not be able to ever hug me."

Harris' private member's motion is to be heard at Queen's Park on Feb. 25.

For more, go to TreatRareDisease.ca.

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              34 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                    The Laurinburg Exchange (North Carolina)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                             March 2, 2017 Thursday

Laurinburg hosts rare disease vigil

BYLINE: Nolan Gilmour, The Laurinburg Exchange, N.C.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 593 words


March 02--LAURINBURG -- A group of about two dozen Scotland County residents
came together this week to celebrate Rare Disease Day.

The candlelight vigil is meant to raise awareness for the hundreds of diseases
that are too atypical to have their own day or month, unlike common disease like
heart disease or breast cancer.

Rare Disease Day -- recognized internationally -- was started in 2008 and
originally was on Feb. 29, the rarest date of all, which only falls on leap
years. The day is celebrated Feb. 28 in between leap years.

The local event was organized by the Tristan Brown ABC's of Rare Disease
Foundation and held on the corner of Church and Main streets to show support and
pray for those who live with a rare condition or have passed.

The local foundation was founded by Chaka Davis Smith, who's son, Tristan Brown,
passed away from Jeune Syndrome, one of the world's rarest disease, in 2012.

"I have immediate family, church family and community family who have come out
to honor Tristan and Rare disease day,' said Smith.

Tuesday's Rare Disease Day vigil follows Brown's birthday -- he would have
turned 9 years old on Monday.

Laurinburg Mayor Matthew Block signed a proclamation to recognize Rare Disease
Day in the city, and also attended the vigil, along with family and friends of
Smith, as well as community members.

"I'm here to show my support for people who suffer from rare diseases," Block
said. "I applaud Chaka Davis Smith and her mother, Essie Davis, for getting
recognition for this event.

"I deal with probably the most common disease, the common disease of heart
disease happens to so many people it has a lot of advocacy and in fact it gets
the whole month of February to be recognized."

Smith was totally in the dark about Jeune Syndrome when a doctor diagnosed her
two-year-old son with the rare disease in 2010 -- the only person in the state
diagnosed with the disease that year.

Seven years later, the Tristan Brown ABC's of Rare Diseases Foundation held its
5th annual candlelight vigil to raise awareness about that illness and other
rare diseases.

Smith and her foundation have also looked to the community for donations to help
raise money for others dealing with rare diseases to take their children to the
Ronald McDonald Houses in Chapel Hill, Durham and Ann Arbor, MI.

"I begin this foundation with my faith in God to help families who have children
with rare conditions, who have long stays in the hospital and need shelter such
as the Ronald McDonald House," Smith said. "We provide funding to places like
the Ronald McDonald House and Children Flight of Hope because I was once one of
those families who needed financial assistance while being close to Tristan."

Jeune Syndrome is a genetic disorder that affects the way a child's cartilage
and bones develop particularly the rib cage, pelvis, arms and legs. The disease
also attacks the child's kidneys which over time results in renal failure.

"Over the past few years, this vigil has helped raise awareness to rare diseases
-- a lot of my coworkers will say they know someone with a rare disease and this
event helps is raising that awareness," Smith said.

Reach Nolan Gilmour at 910-506-3171

RECOMMENDED FOR YOU

4:37 pm       |

Drug control bill seeks restrictions on doctors, pharmacists

8:54 am       |

Wagram Recreation to hold line dancing showcase

8:33 am       |

Laurinburg hosts rare disease vigil

___ (c)2017 The Laurinburg Exchange (Laurinburg, N.C.) Visit The Laurinburg
Exchange (Laurinburg, N.C.) at www.laurinburgexchange.com Distributed by Tribune
Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20170302-1LX-Laurinburg-hosts-rare-disease-vigil-0302-20170302

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1LX


                     Copyright 2017 The Laurinburg Exchange


                              35 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                South Wales Echo

                            February 26, 2016 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Exhibition celebrates our differences

BYLINE: Rachael Misstear

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18,19

LENGTH: 549 words


THESE enchanting images of children form part of a new photographic exhibition
which celebrates difference.

Each child has been diagnosed with a rare disease.

The images were taken by mum Ceredwin Hughes, whose son Isaac has the rare
genetic disease Moebius.

His condition results in paralysis of facial nerves, and while his family could
easily see changes in his expressions others were unable to.

Ceridwen sought to capture Isaac's personality photographically herself and her
success led her to create Same But Different and The Rare Project, featuring
many young people and children with rare diseases.

Ceridwen has worked with several families over the last 12 months to build a
gallery of images that really capture the person behind each rare condition.

Same But Different, a not for profit organisation, will launch The Rare Project
using photography to showcase the work, which is hoped will highlight the
obstacles the children and their families face.

"Isaac loves to tease and make fun of his friends - even though he was born with
a condition that means he can't smile," said Ceridwen.

The eight-year-old was diagnosed after leaving doctors baffled for the first
months of his life. It affects just 200 people in the UK.

"The Rare Project encourages people to get to know young people and children
with rare diseases for their personalities and not their condition," said his
mum.

"It's vitally important that we break down barriers and empower people to have a
voice so the people behind rare diseases can be seen. People often make
judgements based on the superficial and I wanted to help people look past the
conditions and see the person behind that. It's a way of encouraging people to
find out more and ask questions and of giving them a way of doing that.

"Rare diseases affect one in 17 people in the UK. They are far more common than
many people imagine and so the project also hopes to raise awareness of the
6,000-8,000 rare diseases that exist," she added.

"The charity Findacure defines many rare diseases as 'fundamental diseases'. For
example the research into a rare condition such as Prader-Willi syndrome, which
affects appetite and diet, is a doorway to informing understanding of common
conditions such as obesity and diabetes."

Same But Different has recently partnered with Climb, a charity supporting
families affected by over 700 Inherited Metabolic Diseases (IMDs) making up a
large proportion of rare diseases. Along with Ceridwen's son Isaac, Alex is
another of the exhibition's stars. She has Leigh's disease, a condition of the
central nervous system.

It causes her severe pain at times and leaves her severely fatigued.

Despite her condition Alex doesn't let it stop her from travelling to Florida to
visit Disneyworld and her favourite characters Mickey, Minnie and Jimini
Cricket.

Matthew has a similar starring role in the exhibition. He has Crouzon syndrome,
a condition where skull bones fuse prematurely.

Crouzon syndrome hasn't got in the way of Matthew's love of football and he
hopes to play for Real Madrid or Manchester United.

¦ The exhibition opens at Chester Zoo, from February 27 to March 4; All Nations
Centre, Cardiff, on February 29; Heath Hospital, Cardiff, from March 2 to 6 and
at Theatr Clwyd from May 31 to June 18.

¦ www.samebutdifferentcic.org.uk

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Jake - who has Angelman syndromeGrace - who has PVLIsaac, and
chameleon, who has Moebius syndromeJames - who has Coffin Lowry syndromeAlex -
who has GA1Mari - who has AniridiaIsaac - who has Moebius syndromeApril - who
has Hurler syndrome

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SWE


                    Copyright 2016 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              36 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                  Cyprus Mail

                            February 28, 2016 Sunday

Around 60,000 people in Cyprus suffer from a rare disease

LENGTH: 337 words


At least 60,000 people in Cyprus suffer from rare diseases, among the 30 million
across Europe who are similarly afflicted, it emerged on Sunday.

The figures were released by National Committee for Rare Diseases a the health
ministry .a day ahead of 'Rare Disease Day' on Monday. It is estimated that
there are 6,000 to 8,000 different rare diseases in the world.

The committee said most rare diseases are genetic and include congenital
abnormalities in growth, chromosomal monogenic syndromes, skeletal
malformations, hereditary metabolic diseases, and hereditary cancers. There are
also rare autoimmune diseases and childhood cancers.

it said people with diseases lose the most productive years of their lives and
hence need timely and accurate diagnosis, multidisciplinary care and
comprehensive treatment.

In Cyprus, through systematic work by health professionals, scientists,
representatives of patients and other experts, a national strategy has been
prepared to combat the phenomenon, the committee said.

Volunteer Commissioner Yiannis Yiannaki, referring to this year's campaign
slogan 'The Voice of Patients' said the aim was to achieve the changes necessary
to improve the lives of patients and their families and carers.

After the rare diseases noted in Cyprus are congenital heart defects, genetic
neurological diseases, myopathies, metabolic syndromes, skeletal malformations,
and rare diseases in the thalassaemia sector. Yiannaki did concede that it was
generally recognised that there are gaps in the provision of health care to
those patients with rare diseases.

The campaign this year, he added, aims to strengthen the voice of these patients
and raise society's awareness, and that of health professionals regarding rare
diseases. There were, he said NGOs active abroad and in Cyprus that encourage
patients to demand equal opportunities in access to health care.

The post Around 60,000 people in Cyprus suffer from a rare disease appeared
first on Cyprus Mail.

http://imgs.syndigate.info/41/70/46/145667533032.jpg



LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 70


               Copyright 2016 Cyprus Mail - Cyprus Mail Co. Ltd.
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              37 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                The Western Mail

                            December 6, 2010 Monday
                                 First Edition

Patients 'wait up to 10 years for rare disease diagnosis';
SURVEY 'REVEALS NEED FOR A CO-ORDINATED PLAN'

BYLINE: MADELEINE BRINDLEY

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 683 words


PATIENTS with rare diseases are waiting up to 10 years for an accurate
diagnosis, a report today reveals.

Rare Disease UK said many patients are facing years of unnecessary delays.

The organisation's report, Experiences of Rare Diseases, based on a survey of
600 patients, said almost half were initially misdiagnosed.

Only a quarter of those asked were diagnosed within three months of the onset of
symptoms but almost one in five lived with conditions for more than five years
before receiving an accurate diagnosis.

For more than 10%, diagnosis took more than a decade.

Alastair Kent, chair of Rare Disease UK (RDUK), said: "Many people living with
rare diseases and their families have to go through years of medical tests and
procedures before an accurate diagnosis can be made.

"Not only is it often a battle to get an accurate diagnosis, patients and
families then struggle to find out the medical impact of a condition and how to
manage it, on top of having to cope with day-to-day life without adequate
support.

"The results of RDUK's survey hammer home the need for a co-ordinated national
plan for the diagnosis, treatment and research of rare diseases. "This is a
hugely important issue that needs to be tackled - patients and families should
not have to face an inequitable level of care from the NHS because they have the
misfortune of their condition being rare."

A rare disease is defined as one that affects about one in 2,000 people.
Collectively, rare diseases are relatively common - 3.5 million people in the UK
live with a rare condition at some point in their lives, the equivalent to one
person in 17.

They include muscular dystrophy, all childhood cancers and conditions such as
Lowe syndrome, Cockayne syndrome and multiple endocrine neoplasia, also known as
Men. The RDUK report revealed the "traumatic" experience of getting a diagnosis
for many patients - almost a third received more than three incorrect diagnoses
before being accurately diagnosed.

And one in five people said they had to see more than six doctors before
securing a final diagnosis.

Nick Thomas was diagnosed with multiple myeloma in 2009 - a form of bone marrow
cancer. Those GPs who encounter it will probably only see one case during their
working lives.

A year before he was told he had myeloma, Mr Thomas, a deputy headteacher from
Newport, had been diagnosed with arthritis, which he was told was "expected" for
a former rugby player.

Mr Thomas' story is featured in the RDUK report.

His wife Gillian said: "When he couldn't lift the shopping out of the car for me
we demanded more tests.

"His spine has collapsed causing him to lose seven inches in height. He has lost
six stone in weight."

The Western Mail earlier this year featured the Thomases' ultimately successful
fight to receive the drug mozobil, which would help the 49-year-old to produce
sufficient stem cells for a transplant to keep the disease in remission.

He eventually had the drug five months later, but the delay had repercussions
for his health and he has undergone a succession of additional operations and
procedures.

Mrs Thomas, a barrister, added: "Had the original drug been available when it
was needed none of this additional expense to the NHS would have been incurred.

"I cannot describe our emotions."

Mr Thomas had been due to return to work in July but finally made it back to the
classroom on Wednesday, working two hours a day initially, with the aim of
returning full-time to Newbridge Comprehensive School next month.

Recounting the time when the couple had to manage after his sick pay ended, Mrs
Thomas added: "Jobcentreplus considers that he is not seriously ill - 'Well you
haven't had a tumour have you? It isn't like you have had an organ transplant' -
and we have battled for every penny of the benefit we receive.

"No provision has been made for his pension contributions, putting him at
further risk when the cancer returns.

"Nick is a deputy headteacher.

Instead of claiming benefits for these months he should have been contributing
to society."

> HEALTH WALES: PAGES 22-27

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Nick Thomas with his wife Gillian at home in Newport

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: wm


                    Copyright 2010 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              38 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                    The Laurinburg Exchange (North Carolina)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                          February 25, 2015 Wednesday

Vigil to raise awareness of rare disease

BYLINE: The Laurinburg Exchange, N.C.

SECTION: LIFESTYLE

LENGTH: 310 words


Feb. 25--LAURINBURG -- On Friday evening, Chaka Davis will mark what would have
been her son's sixth birthday with a public candlelight vigil, held to raise
awareness of the rare disease that took his young life.

Davis, the founder of the "Tristan Brown ABCs of Rare Diseases Foundation," is
organizing the vigil, set for 5:45 p.m. at the A.B. Gibson Center. The event
will follow others held at I. Ellis Johnson Elementary School, where she
teaches. Laurinburg Mayor Pro Tem Mary Jo Adams, with Chaka, her mother Essie
Davis and Tristan's aunt Willie M. Hayes looking on, signed a proclamation
earlier this month declaring February 22-27 as Rare Disease Week.

"All we want to do is share information about rare diseases," Davis said. "It's
amazing how rare some of these diseases are, some of them so much so that you
would never have heard anything about them."

Such is the case with Davis, who had never heard of Jeune Syndrome before her
son was diagnosed, the only child in the state with the disease at that time.
Jeune Syndrome affects lungs and kidneys, leading Tristan to have to undergo
several surgeries, including the installation of titanium ribs to reinforce his
chest wall.

Diseases are defined as rare when they affect fewer than 200,000 people, or
fewer than 1 in 1,500, in the U.S. at any given time. There are approximately
7,000 known rare diseases.

Davis' foundation partners with the Global Genes Project and she is an
ambassador for National Organization of Rare Disorders. All three organizations
promote awareness of and advocate for individuals with rare diseases in the hope
that with awareness, medical practitioners will be better able to diagnose and
treat them.

___ (c)2015 The Laurinburg Exchange (Laurinburg, N.C.) Visit The Laurinburg
Exchange (Laurinburg, N.C.) at www.laurinburgexchange.com Distributed by Tribune
Content Agency, LLC

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20150225-1LX-Vigil-to-raise-awareness-of-rare-disease-0225-20150225

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1LX


                     Copyright 2015 The Laurinburg Exchange


                              39 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                               walesonline.co.uk

                      February 26, 2016 Friday 6:00 AM GMT

These amazing pictures of children suffering from rare diseases were taken by a
mum desperate to show the personalities behind their conditions;
Photographer Ceridwen Hughes started the not for profit group Same But Different
to discourage people from judging people by appearance

BYLINE: By Rachael Misstear

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 597 words


These enchanting images of children form part of new photographic exhibition
which celebrates difference.

Each child has been diagnosed with a rare disease.

The images were taken by mum Ceredwin Hughes, whose son Isaac has the rare
genetic disease Moebius.

His condition results in paralysis of facial nerves, and while his family could
easily see changes in his expressions others were unable to.

Ceridwen sought to capture Isaac's personality photographically herself and her
success led her to create Same But Different and The Rare Project, featuring
many young people and children with rare diseases.

Ceridwen has worked with several families over the last 12 months to build a
gallery of images that really capture the person behind each rare condition.

Same But Different, a not for profit organisation, will launch The Rare Project'
using photography to showcase the work, which is hoped will highlight the
obstacles the children and their families face.

"Isaac loves to tease and make fun of his friends - even though he was born with
a condition that means he can't smile," mum-of-two Ceridwen, from Mold, said.

Read more: How Nell, aged 7, towers over her classmates

The eight-year-old was diagnosed after leaving doctors baffled for the first
months of his life. It affects just 200 people in the UK.

"The Rare Project encourages people to get to know young people and children
with rare diseases for their personalities and not their condition," said his
mum.

"It's vitally important that we break down barriers and empower people to have a
voice so the people behind rare diseases can be seen.

"People often make judgements based on the superficial and I wanted to help
people look past the conditions and see the person behind that. It's a way of
encouraging people to find out more and ask questions and of giving them a way
of doing that.

"Rare diseases affect one in 17 people in the UK. They are far more common than
many people imagine and so the project also hopes to raise awareness of the
6000-8000 rare diseases that exist," she added.

Read more: The little girl diagnosed with rare genetic condition

"The charity Findacure defines many rare diseases as 'fundamental diseases'. For
example the research into a rare condition such as Prader-Willi syndrome, which
affects appetite and diet, is a doorway to informing understanding of common
conditions such as obesity and diabetes."

Same But Different has recently partnered with Climb, a charity supporting
families affected by over 700 Inherited Metabolic Diseases (IMDs) making up a
large proportion of rare diseases.

Along with Ceridwen's son Isaac, Alex is another of the exhibition's stars. She
has Leigh's disease a condition of the central nervous system.

It causes her severe pain at times and leaves her severely fatigued.

Despite her condition Alex doesn't let it stop her from travelling to Florida to
visit Disneyworld and her favourite characters Mickey, Minnie and Jimini
Cricket.

Matthew has a similar starring role in the exhibition. He has Crouzon syndrome,
a condition where skull bones fuse prematurely. Crouzon syndrome hasn't got in
the way of Matthew's love of football and he hopes to play for Real Madrid or
Manchester United, a decision is looming.

The exhibition opens at Chester Zoo, from February 27- to March 4; All Nations
Centre, Cardiff on February 29; Heath Hospital, Cardiff from March 2 to 6 and at
Theatr Clwyd from May 31 to June 18.

To find out more about Same But Different visit here or email Ceridwen directly
at ceri@samebutdifferentcic.org.uk

WalesOnline iOS app plug (strip) September 2015

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBWM


                         Copyright 2016 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved


                              40 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                               walesonline.co.uk

                      February 26, 2016 Friday 6:00 AM GMT

These amazing pictures of children suffering from rare diseases were taken by a
mum desperate to show the personalities hiding behind their conditions;
Photographer Ceridwen Hughes started the not for profit group Same But Different
to discourage people from judging people by appearance

BYLINE: By Rachael Misstear

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 589 words


These enchanting images of children form part of new photographic exhibition
which celebrates difference.

Each child has been diagnosed with a rare disease.

The images were taken by mum Ceredwin Hughes, whose son Isaac has the rare
genetic disease Moebius.

His condition results in paralysis of facial nerves, and while his family could
easily see changes in his expressions others were unable to.

Ceridwen sought to capture Isaac's personality photographically herself and her
success led her to create Same But Different and The Rare Project, featuring
many young people and children with rare diseases.

Ceridwen has worked with several families over the last 12 months to build a
gallery of images that really capture the person behind each rare condition.

Same But Different, a not for profit organisation, will launch The Rare Project'
using photography to showcase the work, which is hoped will highlight the
obstacles the children and their families face.

"Isaac loves to tease and make fun of his friends - even though he was born with
a condition that means he can't smile," mum-of-two Ceridwen, from Mold, said.

Read more: How Nell, aged 7, towers over her classmates

The eight-year-old was diagnosed after leaving doctors baffled for the first
months of his life. It affects just 200 people in the UK.

"The Rare Project encourages people to get to know young people and children
with rare diseases for their personalities and not their condition," said his
mum.

"It's vitally important that we break down barriers and empower people to have a
voice so the people behind rare diseases can be seen.

"People often make judgements based on the superficial and I wanted to help
people look past the conditions and see the person behind that. It's a way of
encouraging people to find out more and ask questions and of giving them a way
of doing that.

"Rare diseases affect one in 17 people in the UK. They are far more common than
many people imagine and so the project also hopes to raise awareness of the
6000-8000 rare diseases that exist," she added.

Read more: The little girl diagnosed with rare genetic condition

"The charity Findacure defines many rare diseases as 'fundamental diseases'. For
example the research into a rare condition such as Prader-Willi syndrome, which
affects appetite and diet, is a doorway to informing understanding of common
conditions such as obesity and diabetes."

Same But Different has recently partnered with Climb, a charity supporting
families affected by over 700 Inherited Metabolic Diseases (IMDs) making up a
large proportion of rare diseases.

Along with Ceridwen's son Isaac, Alex is another of the exhibition's stars. She
has Leigh's disease a condition of the central nervous system.

It causes her severe pain at times and leaves her severely fatigued.

Despite her condition Alex doesn't let it stop her from travelling to Florida to
visit Disneyworld and her favourite characters Mickey, Minnie and Jimini
Cricket.

Matthew has a similar starring role in the exhibition. He has Crouzon syndrome,
a condition where skull bones fuse prematurely. Crouzon syndrome hasn't got in
the way of Matthew's love of football and he hopes to play for Real Madrid or
Manchester United, a decision is looming.

The exhibition opens at Chester Zoo, from February 27- to March 4; All Nations
Centre, Cardiff on February 29; Heath Hospital, Cardiff from March 2 to 6 and at
Theatr Clwyd from May 31 to June 18.

To find out more about Same But Different visit here or email Ceridwen directly
at ceri@samebutdifferentcic.org.uk

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBWM


                         Copyright 2016 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved


                              41 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                               walesonline.co.uk

                      February 26, 2016 Friday 6:00 AM GMT

These amazing pictures of children suffering from rare diseases were taken by a
mum desperate to show the personalities behind their conditions;
Photographer Ceridwen Hughes started the not for profit group Same But Different
to discourage people from judging people by appearance

BYLINE: By Rachael Misstear

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 597 words


These enchanting images of children form part of new photographic exhibition
which celebrates difference.

Each child has been diagnosed with a rare disease.

The images were taken by mum Ceredwin Hughes, whose son Isaac has the rare
genetic disease Moebius.

His condition results in paralysis of facial nerves, and while his family could
easily see changes in his expressions others were unable to.

Ceridwen sought to capture Isaac's personality photographically herself and her
success led her to create Same But Different and The Rare Project, featuring
many young people and children with rare diseases.

Ceridwen has worked with several families over the last 12 months to build a
gallery of images that really capture the person behind each rare condition.

Same But Different, a not for profit organisation, will launch The Rare Project'
using photography to showcase the work, which is hoped will highlight the
obstacles the children and their families face.

"Isaac loves to tease and make fun of his friends - even though he was born with
a condition that means he can't smile," mum-of-two Ceridwen, from Mold, said.

Read more: How Nell, aged 7, towers over her classmates

The eight-year-old was diagnosed after leaving doctors baffled for the first
months of his life. It affects just 200 people in the UK.

"The Rare Project encourages people to get to know young people and children
with rare diseases for their personalities and not their condition," said his
mum.

"It's vitally important that we break down barriers and empower people to have a
voice so the people behind rare diseases can be seen.

"People often make judgements based on the superficial and I wanted to help
people look past the conditions and see the person behind that. It's a way of
encouraging people to find out more and ask questions and of giving them a way
of doing that.

"Rare diseases affect one in 17 people in the UK. They are far more common than
many people imagine and so the project also hopes to raise awareness of the
6000-8000 rare diseases that exist," she added.

Read more: The little girl diagnosed with rare genetic condition

"The charity Findacure defines many rare diseases as 'fundamental diseases'. For
example the research into a rare condition such as Prader-Willi syndrome, which
affects appetite and diet, is a doorway to informing understanding of common
conditions such as obesity and diabetes."

Same But Different has recently partnered with Climb, a charity supporting
families affected by over 700 Inherited Metabolic Diseases (IMDs) making up a
large proportion of rare diseases.

Along with Ceridwen's son Isaac, Alex is another of the exhibition's stars. She
has Leigh's disease a condition of the central nervous system.

It causes her severe pain at times and leaves her severely fatigued.

Despite her condition Alex doesn't let it stop her from travelling to Florida to
visit Disneyworld and her favourite characters Mickey, Minnie and Jimini
Cricket.

Matthew has a similar starring role in the exhibition. He has Crouzon syndrome,
a condition where skull bones fuse prematurely. Crouzon syndrome hasn't got in
the way of Matthew's love of football and he hopes to play for Real Madrid or
Manchester United, a decision is looming.

The exhibition opens at Chester Zoo, from February 27- to March 4; All Nations
Centre, Cardiff on February 29; Heath Hospital, Cardiff from March 2 to 6 and at
Theatr Clwyd from May 31 to June 18.

To find out more about Same But Different visit here or email Ceridwen directly
at ceri@samebutdifferentcic.org.uk

WalesOnline iOS app plug (strip) September 2015

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBWM


                         Copyright 2016 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved


                              42 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                               walesonline.co.uk

                     February 26, 2016 Friday 12:08 PM GMT

These moving pictures show children suffering from rare diseases;
Photographer Ceridwen Hughes started the not for profit group Same But Different
to discourage people from judging people by appearance

BYLINE: By Rachael Misstear

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 597 words


These enchanting images of children form part of new photographic exhibition
which celebrates difference.

Each child has been diagnosed with a rare disease.

The images were taken by mum Ceredwin Hughes, whose son Isaac has the rare
genetic disease Moebius.

His condition results in paralysis of facial nerves, and while his family could
easily see changes in his expressions others were unable to.

Ceridwen sought to capture Isaac's personality photographically herself and her
success led her to create Same But Different and The Rare Project, featuring
many young people and children with rare diseases.

Ceridwen has worked with several families over the last 12 months to build a
gallery of images that really capture the person behind each rare condition.

Same But Different, a not for profit organisation, will launch The Rare Project'
using photography to showcase the work, which is hoped will highlight the
obstacles the children and their families face.

"Isaac loves to tease and make fun of his friends - even though he was born with
a condition that means he can't smile," mum-of-two Ceridwen, from Mold, said.

Read more: How Nell, aged 7, towers over her classmates

The eight-year-old was diagnosed after leaving doctors baffled for the first
months of his life. It affects just 200 people in the UK.

"The Rare Project encourages people to get to know young people and children
with rare diseases for their personalities and not their condition," said his
mum.

"It's vitally important that we break down barriers and empower people to have a
voice so the people behind rare diseases can be seen.

"People often make judgements based on the superficial and I wanted to help
people look past the conditions and see the person behind that. It's a way of
encouraging people to find out more and ask questions and of giving them a way
of doing that.

"Rare diseases affect one in 17 people in the UK. They are far more common than
many people imagine and so the project also hopes to raise awareness of the
6000-8000 rare diseases that exist," she added.

Read more: The little girl diagnosed with rare genetic condition

"The charity Findacure defines many rare diseases as 'fundamental diseases'. For
example the research into a rare condition such as Prader-Willi syndrome, which
affects appetite and diet, is a doorway to informing understanding of common
conditions such as obesity and diabetes."

Same But Different has recently partnered with Climb, a charity supporting
families affected by over 700 Inherited Metabolic Diseases (IMDs) making up a
large proportion of rare diseases.

Along with Ceridwen's son Isaac, Alex is another of the exhibition's stars. She
has Leigh's disease a condition of the central nervous system.

It causes her severe pain at times and leaves her severely fatigued.

Despite her condition Alex doesn't let it stop her from travelling to Florida to
visit Disneyworld and her favourite characters Mickey, Minnie and Jimini
Cricket.

Matthew has a similar starring role in the exhibition. He has Crouzon syndrome,
a condition where skull bones fuse prematurely. Crouzon syndrome hasn't got in
the way of Matthew's love of football and he hopes to play for Real Madrid or
Manchester United, a decision is looming.

The exhibition opens at Chester Zoo, from February 27- to March 4; All Nations
Centre, Cardiff on February 29; Heath Hospital, Cardiff from March 2 to 6 and at
Theatr Clwyd from May 31 to June 18.

To find out more about Same But Different visit here or email Ceridwen directly
at ceri@samebutdifferentcic.org.uk

WalesOnline iOS app plug (strip) September 2015

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBWM


                         Copyright 2016 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved


                              43 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                         Daily Dispatch (South Africa)

                           October 25, 2012 Thursday

Help needed for rare disease

BYLINE: Poliswa Plaatjie

SECTION: HEALTH

LENGTH: 228 words


By
 THE mother of a four-year-old child with a rare disease which causes the boy's
hands to grow out of proportion to his tiny body is pleading for help as her
son's condition worsens.


 The boy was born with Proteus syndrome in Victoria Hospital in Alice in 2008.
 Proteus syndrome, also known as Wiedemann syndrome, is a congenital disorder
that causes skin overgrowth and atypical bone development, often accompanied by
tumours.
  The mother said the boy had once asked her to give him her hands.
 "He was playing on his own and he came up to me and said 'mommy please give me
your hands' and that really broke my heart because I couldn't help him," she
said.
 She said she wanted her child to undergo an operation. But doctors at Frere
Hospital told her they would operate when he was 10 years old.
 Department of health provincial spokesman Sizwe Kupelo said in cases of rare
diseases an assessment had to be conducted by doctors with a possible referral
to the Red Cross Children's Hospital.
 "The fact that he was sent to Frere Hospital means that doctors have conducted
an assessment," he said.

 Anyone willing to assist can contact a family friend, Vicky Nkomana, on
082-725-1748. - poliswap@dispatch.co.za
 UNUSUAL CONDITION: This little four-year-old boy was born with a rare disease
that makes his hands grow bigger than the normal size Picture: YANDISA MONAKALI

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: Daily Dispatch


                    Copyright 2012 BDFM Publishers PTY Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              44 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                       May 31, 2017 Wednesday 6:30 AM EST

Penn Orphan Disease Center to Develop Rare Disease Patient Registries

LENGTH: 427  words


May 31 -- The Orphan Disease Center in the Perelman School of Medicine at the
University of Pennsylvania will collaborate with Pulse Infoframe Inc., a medical
informatics company, to develop rare disease patient registries aimed at
enabling international collaboration to better understand these diseases, as
well as accelerate and improve clinical studies to develop new therapies.

"Our aim is to unite the respective rare disease patient, foundation, pharma,
biotech, and academic communities to overcome common obstacles in the process of
developing new therapies for rare diseases," said Ashley Winslow, PhD, senior
director of the Orphan Disease Center (ODC) at Penn Medicine. "By building a
strong foundation that facilitates communication between different communities
of people with rare diseases, we have a unique opportunity to change the way
patient communities can participate in research. We are building a global
database that is very different from current databases built by an individual
disease expert or lab."

The collaboration will begin with registries for CDKL5 Deficiency and
Crigler-Najjar syndrome. CDKL5 Deficiency, a severe epilepsy disorder with
infantile onset, involves cyclin-dependent kinase-like 5 (CDKL5), a protein
whose gene is located on the X chromosome. The CDKL5 gene provides instructions
for making a protein that is essential in forming nerve cell connections for
normal brain development, with mutations causing a deficiency in the protein
level. Crigler-Najjar syndrome is a congenital familial disorder in which
glucuronyl transferase, an enzyme, is deficient or absent.  The condition is
characterized by nonhemolytic jaundice, an accumulation of bilirubin in the
blood, and severe disorders of the central nervous system.

"Natural history data are essential in establishing best clinical practices and
conducting pivotal clinical trials in rare diseases," said James M. Wilson, MD,
PhD, director of the Orphan Disease Center and a professor of Medicine and
Pediatrics at Penn Medicine. "This partnership will help us address this
important gap for CDKL5 deficiency and Crigler-Najjar syndrome, which are the
first of many registries that the Orphan Disease Center will develop in
collaboration with Pulse Infoframe."

"The Orphan Disease Center's commitment to empowering the patient voice globally
represents a tremendous opportunity to intercept disease-causing processes as we
learn more about each condition," said Femida Gwadry-Sridhar, RPh, PhD, Pulse
Infoframe founder and CEO.

Source: Penn Presbyterian Medical Center

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2017 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              45 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            October 17, 2014 Friday

New York: Mount Sinai a Lead Site in NIH-Funded Rare Diseases Consortium
Studying Autism and Intellectual Disability

LENGTH: 903  words

DATELINE: Albany


Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sina, The State of New York has issued the
following News release:

Under a five-year, $6 million grant from the National Institutes of Health's
(NIH) Rare Disease Clinical Research Network, the Icahn School of Medicine at
Mount Sinai (ISMMS) will serve as one of 10 medical centers that have formed the
Developmental Synaptopathies Consortium (DSC). The consortium will study three
rare, genetic syndromes that often cause autism spectrum disorder (ASD) and
intellectual disability (ID).

While both ASD and ID have a variety of know genetic causes, the three
conditions to be studied by the DSC - tuberous sclerosis complex (caused by
mutations in the TSC1 and TSC2 genes), Phelan-McDermid syndrome (caused by
SHANK3 mutations) and PTEN Hamartoma Tumor Syndrome (caused by PTEN mutations) -
seem to affect certain shared cellular pathways that influence the development
of synapses, the spaces between nerve cells in pathways that "decide" whether
signals travel onward to create healthy brain connections.

The consortium seeks to distinguish the neurobehavioral characteristics of these
rare syndromes. Researchers will also track the natural history of the syndromes
to identify demographic, environmental and other variables that correlate with
disease outcomes, which may enable the development of mechanism-based therapies
for ASD and ID.

The Seaver Autism Center for Research and Treatment at ISMMS will lead the study
of Phelan-McDermid syndrome (PMS), an autism-related syndrome that is typically
caused by a defect in the SHANK3 gene.  Found in the heart, kidney and other
organs, SHANK3 plays its most important role in the brain by supporting the
structure of excitatory synapses. The SHANK3 gene is involved in processes
crucial for learning and memory and has an important, yet not fully understood,
role in proper brain development.

"Through the consortium, we can tackle challenges common to rare diseases like
Phelan-McDermid syndrome, including widely dispersed patient populations and
scientific experts, difficulty in diagnosis and the lack of data from natural
history studies," says Alex Kolevzon, PhD, Clinical Director of the Seaver
Autism Center and principal investigator of the Phelan-McDermid syndrome
consortium.  "Our collaboration will provide a robust data source, enabling us
to develop best clinical practices and provide a foundation for the development
of novel therapeutics in the future."

Phelan-McDermid syndrome is associated with intellectual disabilities, sleep
disorders, seizures, behavioral issues, functional language delays, low muscle
tone, poor motor control and problems with eating.  Like other autism-related
syndromes, severity of symptoms varies widely.

Together, the sites seek to enroll 100 patients with tuberous sclerosis, 90 with
Phelan-McDermid syndrome and 140 with PTEN mutations, ages 3 to 21, and follow
them for three to five years with physical examinations, neuropsychological
testing and advanced brain imaging.

"To date, genetic studies indicate that there are about 500-1,000 genes that
make people susceptible to ASD and ID," says Mustafa Sahin, MD, PhD, a pediatric
neurologist and Boston Children's Hospital and Director of the Developmental
Synaptopathies Consortium.  "While it's very unlikely that a single therapy
could treat disorders with so many distinct causes, we may be able to find
certain groups of patients who share defects in similar biochemical pathways who
may respond to treatment with the same agents."

"I am excited to co-direct this consortium because of the opportunity to look at
rare single gene causes of autism and developmental delay," says Joseph Buxbaum,
PhD, Director of the Seaver Autism Center and Administrative Director of the
Consortium.  "We will be able to plan the best ways to treat individuals with
these mutations and develop novel medicines for the disorders.  A deeper
understanding of the shared biological underpinnings of these rare diseases may
also serve as a window to our understanding of the broader mechanisms of ASD and
ID."

In addition to the NIH and the Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, the
consortium includes Boston Children's Hospital, Cincinnati Children's Hospital,
Cleveland Clinic, Rush University Medical Center, Stanford University,
University of Alabama at Birmingham, University of California at Los Angeles and
University of Texas at Houston.

About the Seaver Autism Center for Research and Treatment at Mount Sinai
The Seaver Autism Center for Research and Treatment at Mount Sinai conducts
progressive research studies aimed at understanding the multiple causes of
autism spectrum disorders (ASD).  The multidisciplinary team is comprised of
experts in the fields of genetics, molecular biology, model systems,
neuroimaging and experimental therapeutics who are dedicated to discovering the
biological causes of ASD.  The Center strives to develop innovative diagnostics
and treatments for integration into the provision of personalized, comprehensive
assessment and care for people with ASD.  The Seaver Autism Center was founded
through the generous support of the Beatrice and Samuel A. Seaver Foundation.
For more information, visit www.seaverautismcenter.com or find the Seaver Autism
Center on Facebook and Twitter.

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              46 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                     News-Journal (Daytona Beach, Florida)

                            November 10, 2014 Monday

Family coping with baby's rare disease ; Flagler family struggles to cope with
baby's rare breathing disorder

BYLINE: Laurie Hahn, Laurie Hahn laurie.hahn@news-jrnl.com

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1079  words


PALM COAST -- Lyra Havlin turned 2 months old on Nov. 5 but she has yet to leave
the neonatal intensive care unit of Wolfson Children's Hospital in Jacksonville.

Lyra, a twin, was born with congenital central hypoventilation syndrome, or
CCHS, an extremely rare disease of the central nervous system in which the
automatic control of breathing is absent or impaired. Basically, said Lyra's
grandmother, Cindy Zierk, "her autopilot does not kick in." She simply cannot
breathe on her own, especially when she sleeps.

Her twin brother, Liam, is healthy, said neonatologist Dr. Ma Ingyinn, Lyra's
treating physician, mostly because Lyra and Liam are fraternal twins.

Lyra and Liam were born at Halifax Health Medical Center in Daytona Beach on
Sept. 5 to Cheryl Zierk and Jesse Havlin of Palm Coast.

"As soon as she was born, I could tell even then that she didn't look like I
thought a newborn baby should look," Cheryl Zierk said. "Her breathing was
shallow and she wasn't breathing normally as soon as they took her out."

Havlin, Lyra's father, who was present for the birth, agreed: "As soon as Cheryl
had the C-section, I could tell something was wrong."

"Lyra was born unable to breathe spontaneously when she sleeps," Ingyinn
explained.

Still, it took four weeks before Zierk and Havlin had a firm diagnosis, mostly
because CCHS is such a rare disease. According to the American Thoracic Society,
only some 1,000 people worldwide are known to be affected by the syndrome. The
condition is even rarer in twins.

"The chances are one in 200,000 of contracting this disease," Ingyinn said.
Because of the rarity of the syndrome, she said, "we don't have the numbers to
do studies."

According to Lois Lander, an information specialist at the National Institutes
of Health's Genetic and Rare Diseases Information Center, CCHS is not hereditary
but caused by a genetic mutation that could be passed on if Lyra eventually has
children.

"If she has kids, they would each have a 50 percent chance of having CCHS,"
Lander said.

Ingyinn said genetic testing within the past decade has improved the ability to
diagnose CCHS, and previous cases of CCHS may have been misdiagnosed as Sudden
Infant Death Syndrome.

"At first it was really, really stressful because we didn't know what was wrong
with her," Havlin said. "Because it's so rare, doctors and nurses don't know to
look for it."

The CCHS Family Network reports that in the United States, only three
laboratories -- in Chicago, Philadelphia and Aliso Viejo, California -- can test
for the gene mutation that causes the majority of CCHS cases.

"As soon as we found out it was CCHS, that took some of the weight off," Havlin
said.

Five hours after her birth in Daytona Beach, Lyra was moved to Wolfson
Children's Hospital, where the family discovered that another CCHS patient had
been treated three years ago.

"We were just lucky enough toup at a hospital where they were familiar with the
genetics and knew how to treat her," Cheryl Zierk said.

ROAD TO RECOVERY

Lyra was not the only one with health problems: after the twins' birth, Cheryl
Zierk suffered from congestive heart failure, anemia and walking pneumonia,
which put her in the hospital for three days. She said her condition, which
doctors told her was caused by a fluid buildup due to the pregnancy, has been
resolved with medication.

Cheryl Zierk now spends most of her days in Jacksonville at Wolfson and her
nights at the Ronald McDonald House. She takes Liam with her and her mother,
Mary Markowski, and stepmother, Cindy Zierk, often travel to Jacksonville with
her. Havlin works for a company in DeBary servicing security and fire equipment
and travels around the state during the week, going to Wolfson on weekends.

"Over the past eight weeks, I've spent four or five nights at my house," Cheryl
Zierk said.

The couple, along with Liam and Havlin's 11-year-old son from a previous
relationship, Tyler, live with Markowski in Palm Coast.

Lyra, who receives nourishment through a feeding tube, underwent a tracheotomy
in October and is learning to feed from a bottle. She also can now be held,
which makes her parents very happy.

"I really cannot wait to get her home and get (her and Liam) back together
again," Cheryl Zierk said.

With that goal in mind, she and Havlin are training to be able to care for Lyra
at home. That includes learning how to change and clean the tracheotomy tube,
hook up the oxygen machine, suction her nose and mouth and feed her through a
tube, if necessary. Because of the tracheotomy, Lyra won't be able to speak, so
the family also will have to learn sign language.

"It's more like home intensive care," Ingyinn said.

The American Thoracic Society reports that CCHS is incurable but can be managed
and patients can grow and have reasonably normal lives.

Havlin said Lyra could be eligible for a diaphragm pacemaker around age 6 that
will help her breathe without a ventilator. Ingyinn said that because the
breathing problem arises mostly when Lyra sleeps, and because babies spend most
of their time sleeping, Lyra's quality of life should improve as she gets older.

"When the baby's a little bit older, she will stay awake for longer periods of
time and may be able to be off the ventilator while she's awake," Ingyinn said.
"That should help when she's learning to crawl and walk."

She added that Lyra should be able to live a relatively normal life, as long as
she has breathing support.

NEW NORMAL

The family now is looking for a vehicle to carry the family plus all the
equipment they will need for Lyra, and for a house with enough room for them,
the equipment, and, for the first three months home, a full-time nurse to help
care for Lyra.

So far, they are depending on Medicaid to pay their medical expenses because
they have no health insurance, but they have no idea just how high their
expenses will go.

Sonny's BBQ in Palm Coast, where Markowski works, recently held a benefit for
the family, and the Jacksonville Ronald McDonald House charges $10 per night for
Cheryl Zierk and Liam to stay there. A Wolfson representative said the hospital
treats patients regardless of their ability to pay.

But the couple said that while they know there will be expenses that they cannot
yet predict, they are trying to stay positive.

"It's abnormal, but that has become the normal for us," Havlin said.

The family has created a web page at gofundme.com/fp5xk4 to seek financial help.

"They are just everyday people trying to live an everyday life," Markowski said.

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DBNJ

                Copyright 2014 ProQuest Information and Learning
                              All Rights Reserved
                               ProQuest SuperText
                    Copyright 2014 News-Journal Corporation


                              47 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                             April 18, 2016 Monday

Washington: PROGRAMMING ALERT: TLC Show Showcases Rare Diseases and the Patients
Fighting Them

LENGTH: 640 words

DATELINE: Lahore



 Washington, DC: Energy & Commerce Committee United States House of
Representatives  has issued the following press release:



 "My wish is to meet someone that knows how I feel," says seven-year-old
Giovanni (in the orange shirt above) who has the rare disease Schwartz-Jampel
syndrome. Making that connection for rare disease patients is the premise of the
new TLC network program, "Two in A Million."



 CNN recently featured the new series, which first aired last week. Stemming
from watching an award-winning student film about a young boy with
Schwartz-Jampel syndrome, Adam Hawkins, senior vice president of development at
Raw, and his colleagues wondered what life would be like for the young boy if he
ever met someone else who had the same rare disease - or on the flip side, what
his life would be like having never met another person with the disease. That
thought led to the creation of "Two in A Million." According to CNN, each
episode will pair two people with the same disease, where they will then "spend
one week together sharing hardships and incredible triumphs, visiting
world-renowned doctors and finding answers to important questions."



 Having a rare disease can be very lonely for patients, which makes finding a
community and sharing experiences critical, for both social interaction as well
as medical treatment.

The 21st Century Cures effort seeks to foster the sense of community among
advocates, patients, and their loved ones. Battling disease, particularly one
that is determined rare, is a significant challenge. But through advocacy and
other means, patients are banding together to join forces.



 The #Path2Cures is all about discovery, development, and delivery. Delivering
#CuresNow will bring hope to everyone battling disease, no matter how rare.



 Image 1



 'Two in A Million': TLC show pairs people with rare medical conditions



 "You're one in a million" is the cliched compliment of pop songs and
Valentine's Day cards. But if you live with one of the rarest medical conditions
in the world, is there anything you wouldn't do to know you're not so unique --
that there's someone else out there just like you?



 Wednesday night, TLC launches its newest series, "Two in a Million."



 In each episode, two people "with some of the world's most unusual disorders"
spend one week together "sharing hardships and incredible triumphs, visiting
world-renowned doctors and finding answers to important questions," TLC said in
a press release.



 The idea for the program came from Jonna McIver, a former intern at Raw TV, the
production company that makes the show for TLC. McIver had made an award-winning
student film about Owen Howkins, a British boy with Schwartz-Jampel syndrome who
is featured in the first episode, and his dog, Haatchi.



 "When we saw (the film) in the office, it made us all cry," said Adam Hawkins,
senior vice president of development at Raw. "We realized that it explored ideas
about loneliness and isolation that we then worked up into a bigger series idea.
We wondered, what if Owen had ever met anyone else with the same condition --
and what it would be like if he did."



 Each of the six episodes features a different genetic disease: Schwartz-Jampel
syndrome, ectodermal dysplasia, lamellar ichthyosis, osteogenesis imperfecta,
Jarcho-Levin syndrome and Goldenhar syndrome.



 The trailer for the series begins with a simple but profound message: "In a
world of 7 billion people, these six have never met anyone like themselves."



 "It's like I'm the only one and nobody understands it," says Tiffany, 30, from
New York.



 "Sometimes, it can be lonely," says Joshua, 11, from Texas.



 "My wish is to meet someone that knows how I feel," says Giovanni, 7, from
Pennsylvania.



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact:

 editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              48 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                 Kitchener Post

                          February 24, 2016 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Tour highlights plight of rare disease diagnosis

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 356  words


Nicole Dempsey couldn't walk up four stairs by the time she was diagnosed with
pulmonary hypertension.

It took Angela Massel years to be diagnosed with congenital central
hypoventilation syndrome.

Doctors thought Erika Crawford's Ehlers-Danlos Syndrome was all in her head.

About 20 people suffering from a range of rare diseases, which affects about one
in 12 Canadians, attended a roundtable event hosted by Kitchener-Conestoga MPP
Michael Harris last week.

The event was part of his cross-province tour, where he heard from many
Ontarians about what the government can do to better take care of people
suffering from rare diseases.

"This is a right every Ontarian has," said Ann Bilodeau of the right to proper
health care. Her friend, Johann Kerlow, suffers from atypical hemolytic-uremic
syndrome, a disease that causes blood clots to form in small blood vessels in
the kidneys.

"Rare is rare. It's not going to open up a can of worms. It's not going to
bankrupt the province of Ontario," she said.

"We need to shift the way we do business."

Bilodeau also said that the amount of money spent on Kerlow's hospital stays
could have paid for the drug she needs.

Participants around the table highlighted issues with drug and equipment costs
and plans, access that is different from province to province, the lack of
medical specialists and advocating for their own health care.

"It's taking a toll on us; it's a daily struggle," Sue Tomesch said. Her son,
Jason, has Duchenne muscular dystrophy.

Harris will introduce a private member's motion to be debated on March 3, asking
for an all-party committee to travel across

Ontario to listen to experts and sufferers of rare diseases.

The goal of the select committee will be to come up with recommendations to
improve the

treatment of patients with rare diseases.

He's asking for the focus to be on training, research and development, funding

criteria and policies and equipment and respite.

"We hear about the costs a lot," Harris said after the roundtable. "People say
we can't afford it, but I'm a conservative, and I

know there are gaps in the system and it's failing people that have a rare
disease."

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              49 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            February 28, 2011 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

My boy will get all the care he needs, under a single roof;
It's the good news that people with rare diseases have been waiting for: the
opening of a centre bringing together the right specialists in one place. Jane
Feinmann meets one family whose lives will be changed

BYLINE: Jane Feinmann

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 765 words


Kion Leeson-Beevers is a typical nine-year-old boy who likes nothing better than
driving his off-road quad bike. But he also has one of the world's rarest
diseases: Alström syndrome, a genetic disorder that can eventually damage almost
every organ in the body.

Before he was one, Kion had twice collapsed with heart failure and had suffered
pneumonia, numerous chest infections and sight impairment. He is now partially
deaf and has scoliosis (curvature of the spine). As an adult he faces blindness
and diabetes, a risk of heart, kidney and liver disease and an ever-present
tendency to obesity.

Yet despite this grim catalogue of problems, Kion is a bright, active lad, who
is flourishing at a mainstream primary school in Rotherham and loves
entertaining his three-year-old brother, Cole. "It was touch and go whether he
would survive as a baby," says his mother, Kerry, 32. "But his heart is stronger
than it's ever been."

Kerry has not always felt so positive about her elder son's health problems.
Suffering from a rare disease brings a double set of disadvantages. First, there
is little hope of a cure for disorders that are too rare to justify investment
in research by the pharmaceutical industry; second, doctors are largely ignorant
about a syndrome that affects so few people.

"I had to become an expert in Kion's health as I discovered that doctors don't
necessarily know best when treating someone with a rare disease," she recalls.
Throughout his childhood, the pervasive nature of his disorder meant that Kion
needed regular appointments with specialists in cardiology, orthopaedics,
respiratory medicine and audiology; he also had to attend clinics for vision,
physiotherapy, speech and occupational therapy. These professionals were often
based in different hospitals, and none knew much about Alström syndrome.

"Every time we saw a new doctor or therapist, I had to explain what was wrong
with him. Too often they made hurtful assumptions: one doctor said Kion was fat
when we were making huge efforts to keep his weight down," says Kerry.

But a major new initiative should change all that. Today sees the formal opening
of Britain's first Rare Diseases Centre, at the University of Birmingham. Funded
mainly by the Department of Health, to the tune of nearly £31 million, the
centre will provide not only joined-up health care for patients with a rare
disease, but state-of-the-art research facilities.

Scientists have so far identified some 6,000 rare diseases, in total affecting
one in 17 of Britain's population. The growth in the understanding of genetic
disorders, which began with the human genome sequence, has made scientists
confident that breakthroughs in treatment, whether with drugs or stem cells or
gene therapy, are not far off.

"The centre makes it possible to pool research expertise to give us the best
possible chance of understanding these genetic disorders. This will help us
eventually develop therapies that will control the symptoms and allow people to
live normal lives," says Eamonn Maher, professor of medical genetics at
Birmingham and director of the centre. "There's now talk of finding treatments
for 200 rare diseases over the next decade or so and the centre will lead this
research."

A major contribution to early research has come from the use of the zebra fish,
which is already being studied by heart disease researchers investigating its
ability to regenerate its own cardiac muscle.

"These amazing fish are a cheap and very efficient way of testing the impact and
safety of drugs for rare genetic conditions," says Dr Ferenc Müller, reader in
genetics at Birmingham University.

Nowadays pharmaceutical companies also seem more willing to invest in research.
"That's because the genetic defects responsible for rare diseases also provide
clues to the causes of some cancers," says Prof Maher. "So studying rare
diseases could contribute to cancer treatments."

At the heart of the new service is a "Rolls-Royce" personalised health care
service, according to Professor Tim Barrett, a consultant paediatrician and
Alström syndrome expert.

Earlier this month, for instance, Kion had the opportunity to see all the
specialists he needed, gathered all in one place at Birmingham Children's
Hospital. The team, headed by Prof Barrett, included a cardiologist, a diabetes
expert, a clinical psychologist, a dietitian, a physiotherapist and a genetic
counsellor.

"For Kion to be treated as a whole person rather than a list of problems makes
all the difference in the world," says Kerry.

For more information about rare diseases go to raredisease.org.uk

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: A whole person: Kion Leeson-Beevers (far left) with mother Kerry, her
husband Scott and younger brother Cole
GABRIEL SZABO/GUZELIAN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              50 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            November 4, 2016 Friday

Washington: Passionate Pint-Sized Cures Advocate Takes Over House GOP Blog

LENGTH: 635  words

DATELINE: New York



 Washington, DC: Energy & Commerce Committee United States House of
Representatives  has issued the following press release:



 Remember Max? He's the all-star patient advocate who has be energizing folks on
the #Path2Cures for the last couple of years. Today, 7-year-old Max was the
latest guest blogger for the House Republican Conference.





 Max has a RASopathy called Noonan syndrome, which prevents normal development
in various parts of the body. In Max's blog post, he explains the disease and
his strong support for the 21st Century Cures Act.



 "21st Century Cures is legislation to help all those that are sick, not just
those with rare diseases," explains Max. "For me it means less surgeries and
maybe not having to get a shot every night and maybe being able to just take a
pill instead. It will help everyone because we will all be sick someday."



 It's a straightforward concept that will impact every American family. We need
#CuresNow.My name is Max and I am seven years old, soon to be eight. My fight
for 21st Century Cures started when I was five. But I guess it started sooner
than that, on the day I was born with a rare disease - a RASopathy called Noonan
Syndrome. Noonan Syndrome is a genetic syndrome that affects cell growth and
cell development. For me it means I have to visit a lot of doctors and have a
lot of tests and procedures.



 Rare is not as rare as you think. There are over 7,000 rare diseases in the
world. 95% of them don't have treatments. Treatments can take over 15-20 years
to develop and cost billions of dollars! I don't have that kind of money in my
big blue piggy bank. I only have about one hundred dollars. I don't think that
will get 21st Century Cures very far. That is why I am asking for the
government's help to pass 21st Century Cures.



 21st Century Cures is legislation to help all those that are sick, not just
those with rare diseases. For me it means less surgeries and maybe not having to
get a shot every night and maybe being able to just take a pill instead. It will
help everyone because we will all be sick someday. We need to smack down and
take down the horrible diseases. Doctors will find a way to fix them with the
government's help.  We all deserve treatments and cures. This is why I have
helped advocate for 21st Century Cures from the beginning.



 I have drawn pictures in support of 21st Century Cures. I have met with Members
of the House of Representatives and attended the Committee vote (which passed
unanimously - everyone said AYE!) and the House Vote (which passed 344-77).
Those were really big wins!



 I have made over 100 support #CuresNOW pictures for each Senate office and hand
delivered them to over 80 offices.  (My legs got too sleepy to hand deliver them
all.) I have helped make videos to help encourage and motivate the Senate to
help pass 21st Century Cures.  Even with all of this work and the work of many
others, 21st Century Cures is still not a law.



 This is why I need your help. My birthday is December 12th. My birthday wish is
that 21st Century Cures will pass and become a law.  Please help pass #CuresNOW
by supporting the bill. Draw pictures yourself and talk to everyone you know
about it. Vote YES for 21st Century Cures! The 21st Century Cures bill will help
a lot of people and save a lot of kids in the hospital.  Please help develop new
treatments and cures! Time is running out. Please, before it is too late.



 Love your friend,

 Max



 Note: One of 21st Century Cures' most vocal advocates, Max heard that his mom
was writing a blog post about the cause and told her that he wanted to write
something, too. The above piece is his first person account, with the help of
his proud mom.



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact:

 editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              51 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          The Cairns Post (Australia)

                             March 10, 2015 Tuesday
                                 Cairns Edition

Elyshia gives invisible rare diseases a voice

BYLINE: DANIEL BATEMAN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 448  words


ELYSHIA Hickey has a rare and painful disease, but that's not stopping her from
sharing her story in front of a crowd at a national conference in Melbourne this
month.

The Cairns nursing student suffers from Ehlers-Danlos syndrome (EDS), a rare
genetic condition that has left her with overly flexible joints, stretchy skin,
and prone to dislocations. The condition is caused by a defect in how the body
makes collagen in its connective tissues.

It can also result in symptoms that can be extremely disabling and
life-threatening, such as mitral-valve prolapse, fatigue, gastrointestinal
problems and dysfunction of the immune and nervous systems.

Both Elyshia, 19, and her younger sister Emily, 15, suffer from the syndrome,
which leaves them frequently in pain, and Elyshia occasionally wheelchair bound.

Elyshia, however, will be heading to the National Rare Disease Summit in
Melbourne on March 27-28 to advocate on behalf of those who live with the
condition, and help gather support to lobby the Federal Government for a
national plan.

She believes rare disease patients deserve the same level of care, empathy and
knowledgeable treatment as a person with cancer or heart disease, no matter
where they live.

"If you have a rare disease that is invisible - you look fine on the outside -
it is almost impossible to get a correct diagnosis in a timely manner," she
said. "Early diagnosis means early intervention and effective treatment to help
young people reach their potential.

"But very few doctors and specialists have the knowledge and expertise to
diagnose rare invisible conditions." She said some patients may visit more than
20 doctors before getting a correct diagnosis.

"There is limited training available for specialists and no national rare
disease clinical advice network that doctors can refer to for up-to-date
information," she said.

"We need a registry in Australia of doctors who have experience with rare
diseases.

"We need more research into rare diseases; the flow-on being a better
understanding of how the body works.

"Patients cannot easily and equitably access interstate or overseas medical
specialists.

"A national plan for rare diseases will alleviate these problems, but we are the
last developed nation not to have a national plan for rare disease.

"Also, chronic pain can be severely debilitating and costs the medical system
more than diabetes and heart conditions put together," she said. "A new
Persistent Pain Clinic was established at the Cairns Hospital in 2014, but many
patients are still unaware the service is available.

"Pain specialists from Townsville visit Cairns on a monthly basis."More funding
is required to employ extra staff and reduce wait times."

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: Cairns Post


                   Copyright 2015 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              52 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            October 19, 2010 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Giant takes up fight against rare diseases

BYLINE: Catherine Boyle

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 48

LENGTH: 376 words


Britain's biggest drugs company has created a division to deal specifically with
rare diseases, such as Huntington's, Duchenne muscular dystrophy and
hard-to-treat cancers.

The decision by GlaxoSmithKline marks an evolution in attitude by the world's
largest drugs groups. Many have ignored diseases that affect hundreds or
thousands of patients a year, as they can be difficult to treat and

have a limited number of patients to sell drugs to, in favour of easier sales
of, for instance, anti-depressant drugs, More recently, orphan drug legislation
and approaching patent expiries on other, more widely used drugs, has forced
pharmaceutical groups to reconsider rare diseases. Medicines to treat rare
diseases may also be relatively expensive, as often there is no alternative
treatment. The new unit will start by targeting about 200 of the world's
estimated 6,000-8,000 rare diseases. The move comes as the Francebased

Sanofi-Aventis is bidding $18.5 billion (£11.6 billion) for Genzyme, the world's
most successful developer of rare disease drugs, which charges more than
$200,000 a year for Cerezyme, its Gaucher disease treatment.

Marc Dunoyer, global head of GSK Rare Diseases, said: "There is a very
tight-knit community within rare diseases; there are small numbers of patients
affected by these diseases and they are very often experts on their condition.
Treatment of patients with rare diseases is often undertaken by very specialised
physicians, who are also the clinical investigators seeking new treatments for
these conditions.

"We believe the most effective way to become integrated into this community is
to ensure that we have dedicated employees within GSK who can work with
patients, physicians and academia to continuously extend our understanding."

GSK has also signed an agreement with Italian gene therapy experts researching
stem-cell treatments for rare childhood immune diseases including severe
combined immune deficiency syndrome, also known as "bubble boy" disorder.

Fondazione Telethon and Fondazione San Raffaele will receive an upfront (EURO)10
million (£8.8 million) payment from GSK, with more available if its treatments
are successful.

350 Children worldwide with severe combined immune deficiency syndrome Source:
Times research

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              53 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                       The Janesville Gazette (Wisconsin)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             April 28, 2014 Monday

Social media connects parents of children with rare illness

BYLINE: Anna Marie Lux, The Janesville Gazette, Wis.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 707 words


April 28--WILLIAMS BAY -- Courtney Waller and Reece Mills felt so alone when
they found out their infant daughter had a rare disease.

"Even the doctors were saying that they had never seen the disorder before,"
Courtney said.  "As a parent, you want to do the best thing for your child. With
no expert doctor or support group, you don't know if you are doing the right
thing."

Courtney knew there must be other families affected by Timothy Syndrome, an
ultra-rare genetic disorder. Fewer than 40 people with the condition have been
reported worldwide.

Courtney used the power of social media to find five other moms, who have
children with the syndrome, in the United States and United Kingdom. Through her
Facebook group, she also contacted two mothers who lost children to the
condition and the woman who discovered it.

"This is a powerful message to send to other families who have children with
rare diseases," Courtney of Williams Bay said. "No matter how alone you feel,
you may still be able to find those who understand your circumstances and can
point you ... to the best treatments available."

She added: "As anyone in the medical and rare disease community will attest, it
is not uncommon for the parents of these children to know more about the
syndromes than their doctors."

Born in October, Theodora is in stable condition and goes to a Milwaukee
hospital once a month for evaluation.

The main characteristic of Timothy Syndrome is a heart condition known as Long
QT, which causes the heart muscle to take longer to recharge between beats. The
abnormality in the heart's electrical system can cause irregular heartbeats,
which can lead to sudden death.

"This is the leading cause of death for Timothy Syndrome children," Courtney
said. "We were told at the time of her birth that the life expectancy is 2.5
years."

In addition to the heart, the condition also affects the brain and the pancreas.

Through a Facebook group, Courtney and Reece have connected with a parent whose
child with the syndrome is 22. Another parent has a child who is 8.

"When I hear about their birthdays, it gives us hope," Courtney said. "It was
such a relief to find other people thriving with this condition."

Little Theodora is the youngest of four children.

"She's got that super-wide baby smile," Courtney said. "She knows her mom and
dad. If you looked at her, you wouldn't know she was sick."

Part of what makes the child's journey remarkable is the way Courtney and Reece
got a diagnosis for Theodora. She was one of a handful of babies to be diagnosed
with Long QT while still a fetus.

"This was a direct result of my being asked to join a research study at
UW-Madison, which used bio-magnetism to read a fetal electrocardiogram,"
Courtney said.

Because of the research, Theodora was diagnosed with a specific form of Long QT
within moments of birth and received treatments tailored to her specific form.

"This has greatly improved her chances for survival," Courtney said.

Long QT has 13 forms, and most have no symptoms that are easily detectable. Many
children and young adults die annually from undiagnosed and untreated cardiac
arrhythmias, Courtney said.

"Most can be avoided with detection," she added. "Dr. (Janette) Strasburger and
the research she is conducting in Madison is a promising step towards detecting
some of these fatal conditions. Without her research, Theodora would not be with
us today."

Courtney and Reece share their daughter's story to give hope to other parents.

"If you don't have hope, your life becomes nothing more than a study in
sadness," Courtney said.  "To get hope, I look for small miracles every day."

The miracles can be as simple as Theodora smiling or sitting up for the first
time.

"Children are tiny miracles," Courtney said. "Every milestone they reach is a
miracle. Rather than worrying about what can go wrong with them, you have to
celebrate the small miracles in their lives."

Anna Marie Lux is a columnist for The Gazette. Her columns run Sundays, Tuesdays
and Thursdays. Call her with ideas or comments at 608-755-8264, or email
amarielux@gazettextra.com

___ (c)2014 The Janesville Gazette (Janesville, Wis.) Visit The Janesville
Gazette (Janesville, Wis.) at www.gazetteextra.com Distributed by MCT
Information Services

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO:
20140428-JG-Social-media-connects-parents-of-children-with-rare-illness-0428-201
40428

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: JG


                     Copyright 2014 The Janesville Gazette


                              54 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                           The Cairns Sun (Australia)

                          February 22, 2012 Wednesday
                                   1 Edition

Focus on rare diseases

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 516  words


ON Sunday, the Cairns community is being invited to show their support for
people affected by a rare disease.

It will be the fourth time that Cairns will host an event at the Cairns
Esplanade to recognise International Rare Disease Day.

One woman who has first-hand knowledge of the difficulties facing people with a
rare disease is Meagan Cross, who four years ago with her husband Rohan
established the Cairns Rare Disease Day event.

It came after their youngest daughter Molly - who is now four years old - was
diagnosed with the extremely rare Angelman syndrome, a neurological genetic
disorder which causes speech impediment, balance and movement disorders, sleep
disturbances and seizures.

"We came across the International Rare Disease Day and then we looked at
Australian events and representations and there wasn't anything," Meagan said.

"So the first three years we held a walk and this year we have expanded it to a
fun run, hoping that we can engage the sporting clubs and fitness clubs.

"Although we raise money, primarily it is raising awareness and giving the
families who are affected by a rare disease, some sense of belonging in the
community and helping people understand what they go through."

By the time Molly was six months old, her parents started to notice that she was
not reaching her developmental milestones.

"She wasn't sitting up, she had started to lose a fair bit of weight, and she
was really, really social, but wasn't paying much attention to toys," Meagan
said.

"We knew deep down there was something wrong, and the longer they look for
things - after they've looked for the most common problems - you start realising
it is going to be something a bit left of centre."

It is thought that about one in 20,000 people have Angelman syndrome, named
after English paediatrician Dr Harry Angelman.

"Molly can't walk yet, but she is learning and taking a few steps; hopefully
this will be her year to walk," Meagan said.

"She can't talk; she will never be able to talk and her balance and her
co-ordination are affected.

"The silver lining, if there is one, is that people with this are generally
really happy; they say they have a happy demeanour."

International Rare Disease Day is an annual awareness-raising event that aims to
draw attention to rare diseases and the millions of people who are affected by
8000 known rare diseases.

"Rare Disease Day is about bringing people together to share things that they
have done and to get some strength from each other," Meagan said.

Proceeds from Cairns Rare Disease Day will go to the Edward Koch Foundation and
be used to support FNQ families affected by rare conditions.

Cairns Rare Disease Day will be held this Sunday at the Fun Ship Playground,
northern end of the Cairns Esplanade, from 8.30am. There will be a 3km-5km fun
run or walk, along with a sausage sizzle, jumping castle and entry to lucky
prize draws. Pre-registration is encouraged, which also gives you entry to a
lucky prize draw. To pre-register go to www.tiny.cc/cairnsrdd and more
information is available from Meagan Cross on 0419 545 521 or
meags@mollysvoice.org

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: TSU


                   Copyright 2012 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              55 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            Blackmore Vale Magazine

                               February 25, 2011

Funding needed for asperger's group

SECTION: Pg. 52

LENGTH: 592 words


Funding needed for Aspergers group

THE Wessex Autistic Society is appealing for help towards the annual cost of
providing free drop-in groups to adults with Asperger's Syndrome in Dorchester
Yeovil and Bournemouth.

Having offered a successful drop-in group to adults with high functioning
autism/Asperger's Syndrome in Bournemouth for the last 10 years, the Society
recently introduced a drop-in group to Dorchester and have plans in place to
launch a new group in Yeovil.

The Christchurch based charity needs to raise £17,575 on an annual basis to
cover the running costs of the three groups which include costs for sessional
staff, room hire and activities. A local trust has already pledged a grant of
£5,000 for to cover the costs of the Yeovil drop-in group in 2011/12, which
leaves a balance of £12,575 to be raised this year for the Bournemouth and
Dorchester groups.

If you can help contact 01202 483360.

More details from http://www.twas.org.uk

GOSSIP group to learn about advances in radiotherapy

ADVANCES in radiotherapy will be discussed by the GOSSIP health promotion and
support group with Dr Petra Jankowska on Monday 28th February.

The Group, which provides advice and information for women with gynaecological
cancer, was founded by the Gynaecological Cancer Specialist Nurses based in
Yeovil and Taunton in partnership with women from across Somerset and Dorset who
have had gynaecological cancers (i.e. cancers of the ovary, womb, vulva or
cervix).

Attending meetings enables patients to meet with other women who have a similar
diagnosis and may have had similar treatments. Partners, family members and
friends are welcome to go along as well. A specialist nurse is present at
meetings and will be happy to answer questions and discuss concerns on a
one-to-one basis.

Next week's meeting will be held in the Seminar Room in Yeovil's Women's
Hospital between 5pm and 6.30pm.

Telephone Eileen Fort at Yeovil District Hospital on 01935 384454 for more
information.

Rare Disease   Day next week

THE fourth Rare Disease Day takes place on Monday and the message to local
people is there is no need to feel socially isolated after being diagnosed with
a rare condition.

The national event is managed by EURODIS and National Alliances of Patient
Organisations, and this year's slogan is Rare But Equal.

There are various rare diseases and many are disabling, leaving the lives of
sufferers compromised. Most rare diseases are chronic with no known cure, and if
left untreated many can be fatal.

The Myasthenia Gravis Association is supporting Rare Disease Day. MG affects
around 10,000 people in the UK and is characterised by sporadic muscle weakness
caused by a breakdown in communication between nerves and muscles.

Jane Goodchild from Wincanton is an MG sufferer: "I will not pretend that life
has been easy, I lost part of my childhood to MG."

Like most rare diseases, diagnosis is often difficult and can take many years to
be identified.

The diagnosis process for Mrs Goodchild took over a year and was a distressing
part of her childhood but, since being diagnosed, she has been able to live a
fairly normal life. Friends and family have been supportive throughout her
illness and she also receives support from her local branch of The Myasthenia
Gravis Association.

She added: "If you met me in the street you would just pass me by thinking I was
a very normal person."

Rare Disease Day aims to increase public consciousness of all rare diseases. For
more information, contact Mrs Rita Goldthorp at rita.goldthorp@btinternet.com or
phone 01980 626062.

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 294


                    Copyright 2011 Northcliffe Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              56 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                             India Investment News

                      January 11, 2015 Sunday 6:30 AM EST

Shire to Acquire NPS Pharma as Further Step in Building Leading Biotech

LENGTH: 2068  words


Jan. 11 -- Ireland-based Shire plc issued the following news release:

Shire plc (LSE: SHP, NASDAQ: SHPG) and NPS Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (NASDAQ: NPSP)
today announced that the companies have entered into a merger agreement pursuant
to which Shire will acquire all the outstanding shares of NPS Pharma for $46.00
per share in cash, for a total consideration of approximately $5.2 billion.
Shire will accelerate the growth of NPS Pharma's innovative portfolio through
its market expertise in gastrointestinal (GI) disorders, core capabilities in
rare disease patient management, and global footprint. The transaction has been
approved unanimously by the Boards of Directors of both Shire and NPS Pharma.

NPS Pharma is a rare disease-focused biopharmaceutical company and its first
product, GATTEX/REVESTIVE (teduglutide [rDNA origin]) for injection, is approved
in the United States and Europe[1] to treat adults with short bowel syndrome
(SBS) who are dependent on parenteral support. NPS Pharma also has a
registration phase product, NATPARA/NATPAR (rhPTH [1-84]) for the treatment of
hypoparathyroidism (HPT).

The $46.00 per share price in the transaction represents a 51% premium to NPS
Pharma's unaffected share price of $30.47 on December 16, 2014.

Transaction highlights

* Excellent strategic fit; strengthens Shire's focus on rare diseases while
leveraging industry-leading GI commercial capabilities and global footprint

* Shire anticipates enhanced revenue and earnings growth profile

* Adds innovative product portfolio with multiple growth catalysts:

* GATTEX/REVESTIVE (teduglutide [rDNA origin]) with growing sales for the
treatment of adults with SBS, a rare GI condition

* NATPARA/NATPAR (rhPTH [1-84]), if approved, would be the only bioengineered
hormone replacement therapy for use in the treatment of HPT, a rare endocrine
disease

* Shire expects transaction to be accretive to Non GAAP EPS from 2016 onward

* Acquisition to be effected by a tender offer and funded from Shire's cash
resources, as well as existing and new bank facilitie

* Conference call for investors today (full details below)

1. In Europe, Revestive is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with
short bowel syndrome who should be stable following a period of intestinal
adaptation after surgery.

Shire's Chief Executive Officer, Flemming Ornskov, MD, MPH, commented:

"The acquisition of NPS Pharma is a significant step in advancing Shire's
strategy to become a leading biotechnology company. With our global strength and
expertise in both rare diseases and GI, Shire is uniquely positioned to drive
the continued success of GATTEX/REVESTIVE, and, if approved, commercialize NPS
Pharma's pipeline compound NATPARA/NATPAR.

"We look forward to accelerating the growth of the NPS Pharma portfolio based on
our proven track record of maximizing value from acquired assets and commercial
execution. The NPS Pharma organization will be a welcome addition to Shire as we
continue to help transform the lives of patients with rare diseases."

Francois Nader, MD, President, Chief Executive Officer and Director of NPS
Pharma, stated:

"Shire shares NPS Pharma's commitment to patients with rare diseases. We believe
that joining our two companies will drive value for shareholders and ensure we
continue to transform the lives of patients with short bowel syndrome,
hypoparathyroidism, and autosomal dominant hypocalcemia worldwide. I am
confident that this transaction will accelerate our ambition of creating a world
where every person living with a rare disease has a therapy. I would like to
thank all of our employees for their continued outstanding contributions and
steadfast commitment to the patients we serve."

Information on NPS Pharma

NPS Pharma is a commercial-stage rare disease-focused biopharmaceutical company,
whose first product, GATTEX (teduglutide [rDNA origin]) for injection, has been
launched in the U.S. to treat adults with short bowel syndrome (SBS). NPS Pharma
is in the process of launching the product in Europe under the trade name
REVESTIVE. NPS Pharma's second product rhPTH [1-84] (NATPARA in the U.S. /
NATPAR in Europe) is currently under review in the U.S. and Europe for the
treatment for hypoparathyroidism (HPT). NPS Pharma has an ongoing Phase 2a study
evaluating its lead pipeline candidate NPSP795 for the treatment of adults with
autosomal dominant hypocalcemia. NPS Pharma has an operational presence in the
U.S., Canada, Europe, Latin America and Japan. The value of NPS Pharma's gross
assets were $282.2 million with net assets totaling $130.9 million as of
September 30, 2014. NPS Pharma's losses before tax for the three and nine month
periods ending September 30, 2014 were $1.9 million and $6.2 million,
respectively.

Information on GATTEX/REVESTIVE

In the United States, GATTEX (teduglutide [rDNA origin]) for injection is
approved  for the long-term treatment of adults with short bowel syndrome (SBS)
who need parenteral support. GATTEX is the first analog of GLP-2 approved to
treat SBS, a disease which may require patients to get their nutrition
intravenously through a central line.

SBS is a condition in which a large portion of the intestine has been removed by
surgery. As a result, people can't absorb enough nutrients or fluids from food
and liquids to maintain good health. It can also be caused by disease or injury
that prevents the small intestine from functioning properly despite normal
length. To make up for the inadequate absorption, intravenous (IV) feeding
(parenteral support) may be prescribed to help the patient stay healthy.

In the U.S., approximately 6,000-7,000 SBS patients are dependent on parenteral
support with a similar prevalence in Europe.[2]

GATTEX has received orphan drug designation from the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration (FDA) and was approved in December 2012. GATTEX generated sales
of $67.9 million in the nine months ending September 30, 2014.

In Europe, REVESTIVE has been launched in Germany and Sweden.

Information on NATPARA/NATPAR

NATPARA/NATPAR, NPS Pharma's parathyroid hormone (rhPTH [1-84]) for the
treatment of hypoparathyroidism (HPT), a rare endocrine disorder characterized
by insufficient levels of parathyroid hormone (PTH), is currently under review
in the U.S. with an FDA Prescription Drug User Fee Act (PDUFA) action date for
the Biologics License Application (BLA) on January 24, 2015. In Europe, the
European Medicines Agency (EMA) has validated and initiated its review of NPS
Pharma's marketing authorization application (MAA) for NATPAR.

HPT is a rare condition in which the parathyroid glands fail to produce
sufficient amounts of PTH or where PTH lacks biologic activity. PTH plays a
central role in a variety of critical physiological functions in the body. In
patients with HPT, insufficient levels of PTH lead to many physiological
abnormalities, including low serum calcium and an inability to convert native
vitamin D into its active state to properly absorb dietary calcium.

In the U.S., approximately 75,000 patients are diagnosed with HPT with 41,000
having moderate to severe disease with a similar prevalence in EU5 (France,
Germany, United Kingdom, Italy and Spain).[3]

Acute symptoms of HPT are largely due to low serum calcium and range from muscle
pain and tingling, to lack of focus or ability to concentrate, and anxiety and
depression. In extreme cases, life-threatening events, such as arrhythmias and
seizures, may occur. In the absence of an approved parathyroid replacement
therapy, the standard approach focuses on using large doses of calcium and
active vitamin D to increase calcium levels in the blood and reduce the severity
of symptoms. However, balancing the administration of large doses of calcium and
vitamin D is challenging due to calcium fluctuations and the long-term use of
this regimen may lead to serious complications. In addition, calcium and vitamin
D do not correct the abnormal bone metabolism due to PTH deficiency or enable
the activation of vitamin D.

2. NA HPEN Patient Registry. Oley Foundation. 1994

3. Powers et al., Prev. and Incid. of HPT in the USA, large cohort study, DOI
10.1002/jbmr.2004, (2013)

Additional value from NPS Pharma's licenced products and pipeline*

NPS Pharma currently has several successful partnerships in place. Amgen markets
cinacalcet HCl as Sensipar in the U.S. and as Mimpara in the EU; Janssen
Pharmaceuticals markets tapentadol as Nucynta in the U.S.; and Kyowa Hakko Kirin
markets cinacalcet HCI as Regpara in Japan, Hong Kong, Malaysia, Macau,
Singapore, and Taiwan.

NPS Pharma earned  royalty revenues of $123.8 million for 2013 and $89.5 million
for the first nine months ending September 30, 2014.

NPS Pharma is developing teduglutide as a treatment for pediatric SBS. NPS
Pharma is currently conducting a global study for teduglutide in pediatric
patients with SBS who are dependent on parenteral support.

NPS Pharma is also investigating NPSP795, a small molecule antagonist of the
calcium-sensing receptor, which is believed to play a role in the distribution
of PTH [1-84] throughout the body by antagonizing calcium-sensing receptors on
the parathyroid gland to trigger a release of the body's stores of PTH [1-84].
NPSP795 is in development as a treatment for autosomal dominant hypocalcemia
(ADH). There is no approved therapy for this ultra-rare, life-long genetic
disorder that affects both adults and children.

Financial benefit to Shire

The acquisition of NPS Pharma is expected to enhance Shire's revenue and
earnings growth profile. Shire expects the transaction to be accretive to Non
GAAP EPS from 2016 onward.

Related to the acquisition, Shire anticipates that it will realize operating
synergies beginning in 2016 and growing substantially thereafter. Shire
anticipates synergies approximating 25-35% of the Street's consensus forecast of
NPS Pharma's standalone future operating cost base from 2017 onward.

Shire also expects that the transaction will deliver ROIC in excess of its
weighted average cost of capital.

Financing

Shire has secured an $850 million fully underwritten short-term bank facility,
which, in addition to Shire's cash and cash equivalents and its existing $2.1
billion five-year revolving credit facility, is available to finance the
transaction and pay related fees and expenses. Shire plans to refinance the
short-term bank facility through new debt issuances in due course.

Closing

The acquisition is structured as an all-cash tender offer for all of the
outstanding shares of NPS Pharma at a price of $46.00 per share followed by a
merger in which each remaining untendered share of NPS Pharma common stock would
be converted into the same $46.00 cash per share consideration as in the tender
offer.

The closing of the transaction is subject to customary conditions, including the
tender of a majority of the outstanding NPS Pharma shares and the receipt of
Hart-Scott-Rodino clearance. Pending such closing conditions, it is anticipated
that the transaction will close in the first quarter of 2015.

Citigroup Global Markets Limited and Lazard are acting as joint financial
advisors to Shire. Goldman, Sachs & Co. and Leerink Partners LLC are acting as
financial advisors to NPS Pharma. Davis Polk & Wardwell LLP and Slaughter & May
are acting as legal advisors to Shire and Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom
LLP is acting as legal advisor to NPS Pharma.

Conference Call with CEOs from Shire and NPS Pharma

Live conference call for investors:

Flemming Ornskov, MD, MPH, Chief Executive Officer; Jeff Poulton, Interim Chief
Financial Officer; Mark Enyedy, Head of Corporate Development and Interim
General Counsel; Roger Adsett, Senior Vice President, GI Business Unit Leader,
all of Shire Pharmaceuticals; and Francois Nader, MD, MBA, President, Chief
Executive Officer and Director, NPS Pharmaceuticals, Inc. will host a conference
call for investors and analysts today (Sunday, January 11, 2015) at 6:00 p.m.
GMT/1:00 .pm. EST/10:00 a.m. PST.

The details of the conference call are as follows:

UK dial in: 0808 237 0030 or 020 3139 4830

U.S. dial in: 1 866 928 7517 or 1 718 873 9077

International

Access Numbers: Click here

Password/Conf

ID: 24757209#

Live Webcast: Click here

Replay:

A replay of the presentation will be available for two weeks by phone and by
webcast for three months.

UK dial in: 0808 237 0026 or 020 3426 2807

U.S. dial in: 1 866 535 8030

Password/Conf

ID: 653478#

Webcast

replay: Click here

Source: Shire plc

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2015 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              57 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                       May 18, 2013 Saturday 6:30 AM EST

NPS Pharmaceuticals Recognized by National Organization for Rare Disorders for
Gattex as an Innovative Treatment for Patients with Short Bowel Syndrome

LENGTH: 663  words


New Delhi, May 18 -- NPS Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (NASDAQ: NPSP), a
biopharmaceutical company pioneering and delivering therapies that transform the
lives of patients with rare diseases worldwide, today announced that the company
was honored by the National Organization for Rare Disorders (NORD) for the FDA
approval of Gattex (teduglutide [rDNA origin]) for injection, which is indicated
for the treatment of adult patients with short bowel syndrome (SBS) who are
dependent on parenteral support. SBS is a rare and potentially fatal
gastrointestinal disorder in which patients are unable to absorb enough
nutrients and fluids through the intestine from the foods they eat.



"We are honored to be recognized by NORD and proud to have contributed to making
a significant difference in the lives of patients with Short Bowel Syndrome"
said Francois Nader, M.D., president and chief executive officer of NPS
Pharmaceuticals. "The mission of NORD and dedication of their leadership has
proven to be an essential catalyst in improving the lives of patients with rare
diseases over the past three decades."

The event commemorated the 30th anniversary of the enactment of the Orphan Drug
Act and the formation of NORD, while honoring companies and individuals who made
significant contributions to the rare disease community in 2012. NPS was honored
for bringing Gattex, the first major advance for the long-term treatment of SBS
in nearly 40 years, to adult patients with the rare disorder who are dependent
on parenteral support. A combination of a nutritional supplement and essential
fluid, parenteral support is administered intravenously, for up to seven days
per week. The long-term use of parenteral support can be associated with serious
and sometimes life-threatening complications. Gattex may help the remaining
bowel absorb more and consequently reduce the need for parenteral support.

"We at NORD would like to congratulate NPS for its innovative and important work
on behalf of short bowel syndrome patients in the U.S. and for making a
particularly significant contribution by bringing a new treatment option to
these patients," said Peter L. Saltonstall, president and chief executive
officer of NORD.

The event was held at the Mellon Auditorium in Washington, DC on Tuesday, May
14, 2013 to honor leadership in public policy and pioneers in the patient
community, government and industry for years of service to rare disease patients
and their families. Honorees in Public Policy will include William Corr, Deputy
Secretary, U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; The Honorable Nancy
Kassebaum, U.S. Senate, retired; and The Honorable Henry Waxman, U.S. House of
Representatives, retired. Those to be honored For Vision and Pioneering Guidance
include Stephen C. Groft, PharmD; Marlene Haffner, MD, MPH; Lars Uno Larsson;
Abbey S. Meyers; and Jess G. Thone, MD.

About Short Bowel Syndrome

Short bowel syndrome (SBS) is a highly disabling condition that can impair a
patient's quality of life and lead to serious life-threatening complications.
SBS typically arises after extensive resection of the bowel due to Crohn's
disease, ischemia or other conditions. SBS patients often suffer from
malnutrition, severe diarrhea, dehydration, fatigue, osteopenia, and weight loss
due to the reduced intestinal capacity to absorb nutrients, water and
electrolytes. The usual treatment for SBS is nutritional support, including
parenteral nutrition (PN) and/or intravenous (IV) fluids to supplement and
stabilize nutritional needs.

Although PN can provide nutritional support for SBS patients, it does not
improve the body's own ability to absorb nutrients. PN is associated with
serious complications, such as infections, blood clots or liver damage, and the
risks increase the longer patients are on PN. Patients on PN often experience
poor quality of life with difficulty sleeping, and frequent urination, and
patients receiving chronic PN often experience a loss of independence.

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2013 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              58 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                    September 12, 2013 Thursday 6:30 AM EST

NIH Scientists Pursue New Therapies to Improve rare Disease drug Development

LENGTH: 786  words


New Delhi, Sept. 12 -- Four new pre-clinical drug development projects at the
National Institutes of Health will target a form of blindness and diseases
characterized by cardiac problems. The projects were selected for their
potential to treat specific rare diseases and to help scientists uncover new
information that can be shared with other researchers.



The studies will be funded through the Therapeutics for Rare and Neglected
Diseases (TRND) program at the NIH's National Center for Advancing Translational
Sciences (NCATS). This group of projects also marks the TRND program's first use
of stem cells as well as its first collaboration with a large pharmaceutical
company, Eli Lilly, to co-develop a treatment for a rare disease.

"TRND is grounded in partnerships with academic, government, pharmaceutical and
patient advocacy groups. Working in collaboration, scientists conduct
pre-clinical development of new drugs and then advance them to first-in-human
clinical trials," said NCATS Director Christopher P. Austin, M.D. "Like all
NCATS programs, TRND seeks to develop new technologies and more efficient
paradigms for translation, in the context of important unmet medical needs."

Two projects employ therapeutic approaches to developing a treatment for
retinitis pigmentosa, a severe form of hereditary blindness. A third project
focuses on a potential treatment for hypoparathyroidism, a hormone-deficiency
syndrome that can lead to cardiac problems and convulsions.

The remaining project aims to develop a possible therapeutic that targets a
cardiac disorder associated with LEOPARD syndrome, an extremely rare genetic
disease that affects many areas of the body. About 80 percent of patients with
LEOPARD syndrome have a cardiac disorder called hypertrophic cardiomyopathy,
which is a thickening of the heart muscle that forces the heart to work harder
to pump blood, which can lead to early death.

A rare disease is one that affects fewer than 200,000 Americans. NIH estimates
that, in total, there are more than 6,000 rare diseases. However, effective
pharmacologic treatments exist for only about 200 of these illnesses.

Private companies often do not pursue new therapies for rare diseases due to the
low anticipated return on investment. Through TRND, NCATS advances potential
treatments for rare and neglected tropical diseases to first-in-human trials, an
approach known as "de-risking." This strategy can make possible new drugs more
commercially viable and attractive to outside partners, who can invest in their
further development and additional clinical trials. The new projects are:

Long-acting parathyroid hormone analog for the treatment of hypoparathyroidism

Henry U. Bryant, Ph.D., distinguished research fellow

Lilly Research Laboratories, Eli Lilly and Company, Indianapolis

Use of rapamycin for the treatment of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy in patients
with LEOPARD syndrome

Maria I. Kontaridis, Ph.D., assistant professor of medicine

Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, Boston

Use of retinal progenitor cells for the treatment of retinitis pigmentosa

Henry J. Klassen, M.D., Ph.D., director, Stem Cell and Retinal Regeneration
Program

University of California, Irvine School of Medicine

Small molecule pharmacological chaperone for the treatment of retinitis
pigmentosa

William F. Brubaker, Ph.D., chief executive officer

Bikam Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Cambridge, Mass.

The project descriptions are available at
http://www.ncats.nih.gov/trnd-projects.html.

TRND partners do not receive grants. The collaborative project teams receive
in-kind support and gain access to TRND researchers with rare disease drug
development capabilities, expertise, and clinical and regulatory resources. Each
project has established data-driven milestones to track progress. TRND staff may
choose to discontinue projects that do not achieve milestones in the established
timeframe. This allows other more promising candidates to enter the program.

"We are particularly excited about this set of collaborative projects for its
potential to produce treatments for underserved patient populations," said John
C. McKew, Ph.D., acting director of NCATS Division of Pre-Clinical Innovation
and director of the TRND program.

A number of early projects fostered by TRND have reached the stage where
partners, such as pharmaceutical, biotechnology or disease groups, are being
sought to move the treatments out of TRND and in the next phases of clinical
development. Through the program in the last two years, TRND researchers and
collaborators have advanced four projects to human clinical trials, evaluating
treatments for sickle cell disease, chronic lymphocytic leukemia, hereditary
inclusion body myopathy and Niemann-Pick Type C.

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2013 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              59 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                   Arab Times

                             January 6, 2014 Monday

Number of rare diseases in Kuwait high

LENGTH: 2532 words


COMMON bone conditions such as osteoporosis are well identified and treated,
though rare bone diseases still continue to remain rare. There has been a sudden
increase in rare diseases in the Middle East as well. In this interview, Philip
Beales, Professor of Medical Genetics, explains the genetic causes of rare
diseases and how the UCL Institute of Child Health (ICH) has shed light on a key
enzyme involved in the development and maintenance of bone which could help find
future therapies to treat rare and common diseases.  LMS (Lenz-Majewski Syndrome
) which has been identified by the international study as the mutated gene in
people is a skeletal disorder which causes bone malformations and also affects
the brain. So far, only ten cases of this syndrome have been identified.
Question: What is a rare bone disease?

Answer: It's literally numbers in the sense that the condition is present in the
population in less than one or fewer than one in 2000 persons. In such cases, it
is considered rare. Of course, it is not a very helpful term but it is helpful
when you consider that there are around 6000 described rare entities or rare
diseases in their own right. So you will find that some of these are clearly
incredibly rare, one in a million. So bringing them all together, actually it is
a convenient way of addressing what is becoming an unmet need in a large
population. The fact that having this disease isn't very common, most health
services aren't geared up to dealing with people who have this unusual
condition, they are more geared up to dealing with blood pressure, diabetes and
obesity. One of the problems you will always hear from patients is this
diagnostic odyssey is that patients go many years without a diagnosis and that
has been the case for a long time. But the changes in the genetic technology has
now enabled us to rapidly get to a diagnosis that previously had been left and
the care for patients with rare diseases is usually suboptimal for the same
reasons that the health services are not geared up to looking after them. But to
take care of these patients is a multi team approach.

Q: What are the genetic causes of rare bone disease? A: As I said, on the web
and various databases there are now about six to seven thousand listed rare
genetic disorders described in detail. Only 2,300 of those actually have a gene
associated with them and the underlying fault in the particular gene. There's
still at least two- thirds of these to be sorted out, but there are a number of
international and national programs that are going on where the majority of
these conditions will be solved. I think in about 4 to 5 years time from now, we
will be able to solve about up to a 5000 out of the 6000. But the benefit of
finding the genetic cause of a particular condition, particularly a rare one or
even common one is that it's multi-folded because the first thing is you
instantly have a diagnostic test, so not only does it confirm the disease in
that patient it also enables a carrier test to be developed for other members of
the family who might be at risk, brothers or sisters. And then the final
component obviously of understanding the genetic cause of any condition is that
it can tell you how that disease arises and what are the developmental processes
that cause the disease, which is a prerequisite for thinking about therapies and
so now we are getting nearer to many of these conditions and we are able to
think about instant therapies or develop therapies like gene therapy.

Q: Is the number of rare disease in Kuwait very high? A: Yes, it is very high
because of the simple fact that the cultural norm is to marry within the family
and so it's not a character problem in any way, it's simply that you are
increasing the statistical probability that you are going to keep, if its what's
called a recessive disease. The number is also high in Bangladesh, Pakistan and
India.

Q: How do rare diseases develop? Does it start very early in children or does it
come with age-related changes? A: Depends on the disease; you can have a disease
that's affecting just one part of the body, like the eye in the form of
blindness. Some of the conditions I work on have blindness but affects virtually
every part of the body, so they would have obesity, diabetes that's actually one
of the most common conditions in the rare disease. A condition called
Bardet-Biedl syndrome has been documented on being more common rare disease in
this country, and the most common rare disease in Europe is Cystic fibrosis but
for the Bardet - Biedl syndrome may be 1 in 50 people or more in this country
are carrying it so it's one of the most common one in Kuwait and so that affects
every part of the body. The problems could be obesity, diabetes, blindness,
kidney failure, some kids are born with extra fingers and toes. About 5 to 10
percent of the children affected by this disease will not make it to their 5th
birthdays.

Q: How does it affect the brain development? A: Again it depends on which
condition it is because if the gene isn't really active in the brain it won't
have any effect; but again this condition I am talking about Bardet-Biedl
syndrome does affect the brain in many ways. First of all, the patients have
learning difficulties, they can be mild or severe and the other aspect is that
there can be parts of the brain that haven't formed properly. So they can have
balance problems like if it affects the back of the brain. The part called the
cerebellum when affected can cause poor coordination. Moreover, by doing MRI
scans on the brains of several patients suffering from Bardet - Biedl syndrome
has revealed more things. There is a part of the brain called the hippocampus,
which is called that because it resembles the seahorse and comes from a Greek
word and it's that part of the brain which is responsible for our memory and
intellect. We found that we can manipulate this part of the brain and correct
certain defects, which will improve the condition of patients who will have less
learning difficulties later in life so that they can look after themselves. Most
of our patients need support later in life, so in other words they are going to
be unemployed; they are not going to be able to live by themselves most of the
time, but if we can intervene in children then more of them can get to adulthood
and become active members of the society and work.

Q: How rare is the rare bone disease? A: 1 in 17 people in Europe have this
disease.

Q: What is LMS? A: This is the condition called Lenz-Majweski Syndrome, where
the patients have intellectual disabilities but they have a bunch of other
problems that include an usual phase and major bone problems. Some of the
problems are thickening of short and long bones and thickening of bones in the
head. These patients are dwarfs and have short limbs, have all sorts of bone
problems and very thick bones, but this is incredibly rare and there are only a
handful of patients in the world. But by understanding what causes it which is
the purpose of this particular study we have discovered for the first time a
common component of cell membranes. It has an affect on the development of the
brain' but it also has an effect on the development of the cells that go to make
up the skeleton and the important part is that this gives us potential insight
into the understanding of causes or treatments perhaps of osteoporosis which is
much more common. However, this is the opposite of osteoporosis in the sense
that it's Osteosclerosis. It means that this particular gene is a major player
in the way bone is being formed.

Q: How does LMS cause bone malformations? A: We don't really know. There is this
protein called phosphatidylserine synthase 1 which is an enzyme which is an
important part of bone formation. So it's part of the pathway that leads to bone
formation. Not much is known about it so we still have to do a lot of research
in this area. But it links for the first time this group of proteins to bones so
there could be an opportunity to look at treatment.

Q: Osteoporosis is a more common condition, how has this new discovery at UCL
helped with it? A: It makes the link for the first time between this protein
called phosphatidylserine which is a common part of our membrane of all of our
cells and bone metabolism. So it is early days but it gives us a new insight
into how bone is formed and eventually we expect that by teasing out the pathway
in more detail. We will be able to find treatments for conditions such as
osteoporosis or other bony conditions.

Q: Is Bardet-Biedl syndrome inherited from parents? A: Yes it has to be
inherited from parents. Parents are carriers so they are not affected in any way
because they have one faulty copy of the gene and then the defected child has
inherited two faulty copies of the gene but their brothers and sisters who may
be unaffected probably are also likely to inherit one copy of the faulty gene.

Q: What were the various challenges you faced during the discovery at UCL? A:
The first challenge was actually finding the gene and that now is driven by our
relatively new center that has been running for 3 years, called the Center of
Translational Genomics and our job is to find undiscovered genes in problem
patients and rare conditions. And the second challenge, once we found the gene
was to work out what does the gene do so we are able to get an idea of the gene
just by looking at online databases, but we knew what the name of the protein
was and where it's found. So it's found in the membrane of the cell. The next
job was to do some experiments and find the right team which is why I got in
touch with the team from the University of Alberta in Canada and so we had to
get their expertise to determine what happens if you knock down this particular
protein in a cell, so we took patients cells and were able to show that this
protein is not functioning properly in those cells and in my own lab we showed
that this protein is actually working and for that we used zebra fish because
they have the same gene. That helped us understand a bit more.

Q: Will this new enzyme target future therapies? A: It is the first insight into
bony development so this could lead to a whole new area of research around this
one protein but we might be able to unearth new treatments to turn this gene on,
or turn this gene off.

Q: Why is this rare disease so undiagnosed and misdiagnosed? A: One because it
is incredibly rare, this is the problem with rare diseases there are no experts
so a lot of patients keep going from one center to another till they find
someone who is interested in their condition and knows something about the
condition. So that's the problem and until then there has been no test, now
there is a test.

Q: Do you think that rare diseases are under-researched? A: Absolutely, yes they
haven't been funded for many years because billions of dollars went into
understanding the genetics of common diseases so the rare diseases were
completely ignored but now the tables have changed. Now spending millions of
dollars on common diseases has not really got so far and now everyone is turning
towards rare diseases.

Q: What are the signs and symptoms of LMS? A: The key manifestations are dental
problems and one patient has had to get their tongues removed, because their
tongues are very large. They have very prominent foreheads, widely spaced eyes
and very thick skulls and very thick jaws as well they have other bony problems,
short fingers and stubby toes, abnormal chest, spinal problems. One patient had
very loose skin as well. These are the main things and learning difficulties and
intellectual disabilities are associated with that as well.

Q: Is it true that too much tea can cause rare diseases? A: There must be some
study that must be saying that drinking some certain type of tea can pull
calcium out of the bones, but regular tea can not cause any problems.

Q: Can you shed some light on the discovery and its benefits? A: Well as I have
said earlier on, it has made the first link between this particular enzyme in
the cell membrane and bone formation. But that still needs to be worked upon
much further but then the expectation that this might be to new therapies for
bone disorders such as osteoporosis and bone density disorders.

biography Q: What message would you like to give the readers regarding bone
diseases? A: Well as its known, the most common one is the thinning of the bones
and although there are some treatment around at the moment there is room for
better treatment or better ways to avoid osteoporosis so these types of studies,
maybe 10 years from now, might tell us that when you are in your 40s or maybe
even earlier in your 30s you should start modifying your life in a particular
way to avoid bone disease later on but what is known is that maintaining
exercise, health and dairy products will help with maintaining healthy bones and
teeth and Vitamin D as well. In the northern hemisphere, in the colder climates
diseases like Rickets are fairly common until they fortified milk with Vitamin D
but also the other thing is that Vitamin D which obviously maintains healthy
bones is good to certain level as it can also cause cancer.

We found the genes using our Center of Transnational Genomics. We have
transplanted that work here and all of the systems and the pipeline and the
analysis software tools are being used here. Now we have discovered five new
genes recently in the last few months using that same pipeline at Dasman
Diabetes Institute and linking up with Kuwait.

Philip Beales is Professor of Medical and Medical Genetics at UCL and a Wellcome
Trust Senior Research Fellow in Clinical Science. He is currently head of
Genetics and Genomic Medicine at the UCL Institute of Child Health, Director of
the Centre for Translational Genomics (GOSGENE) and head of the Cilia Disorders
Laboratory at the UCL. Beales is best known for his clinical and genetic
research (17 years) into rare diseases especially, the ciliopathies, leading
research culminating in novel gene discoveries for Bardet-Biedl syndrome, Jeune
Asphyxiating Thoracic Dystrophy, Cranioectodermal dysplasia, Acrocallosal
Syndrome and several other disorders. He was the first to attribute the Bardet-
Biedl syndrome phenotype to dysfunctional primary cilia. Beales continues to
pursue his interests in early onset obesity, retinal and renal disease and more
recently in translational science and therapeutics for ciliopathies. By Priyanka
K. Oberoi Arab Times Staff He is a consultant in clinical genetics at both Great
Ormond Street Hospital for Children and Guys Hospital, London and national lead
for the NHS England specialist commissioned Bardet-Biedl syndrome clinical and
diagnostic service. He is currently a member of the Wellcome Trust Rare Disease
Strategy Group and sits on numerous advisory boards including the Mouse and
Zebrafish SAB to the Sanger Institute and iRDiRC. Beales is chairman of the UCL
Rare Diseases Steering Committee. He is also founding Co-editor in Chief of BMC
CILIA and sits on several journal editorial boards. He was elected fellow of the
Academy of Medical Sciences in 2011.

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1143


                 Copyright 2014 Arab Times Kuwait English Daily
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              60 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           September 16, 2016 Friday

Washington: \x93One in a Million" Rare Disease Patient Describes Incredible
Perseverance On the #Path2Cures

LENGTH: 334  words

DATELINE: New York



 Washington, DC: Energy & Commerce Committee United States House of
Representatives  has issued the following press release:



 Battling disease is tough enough, but one rare disease patient advocate
recently chronicled a harsh and difficult reality facing a number of patients -
abandonment by loved ones after diagnosis. Angela Davis writes about her
"21-year odyssey" toward being diagnosed with Stiff-person syndrome in The
Mighty. According to the National Organization for Rare Diseases, Stiff-person
syndrome "is a rare acquired neurological disorder characterized by progressive
muscle stiffness (rigidity) and repeated muscle spasms." It is a disease that
affects one in a million.





 Angela writes, "The first assumption: your biological parents and family will
rush to your aid. I held this one within a tiny crevice of hope in my heart. My
family began their gradual push away from me the moment I started to become
seriously ill. I thought with my diagnosis nailed down at last, they'd care
more. I was wrong. As soon as I received my diagnosis, my parents made it clear
they wanted nothing to do with me anymore."



 But like most rare disease patients, Angela is a fighter, she persevered, and
now sees hope in the effort to deliver #CuresNow. She writes, "If you know any
rare disease patient and want to help, insist your state senators,
representatives, and the president finally vote for and advance #CuresNow to
give us a fighting chance in medical research funding of treatments and cures.
Rare disease patients pave the way for advancements in medicine for every
person, which can help you and your family's well-being too."



 Angela closes with an important message, "Lastly, please offer anyone close to
you with a rare disease your support, practical help, and your cherished
kindness."



 Thanks for sharing your story, Angela. You're never alone on the #Path2Cures.



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact:

 editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              61 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           September 16, 2016 Friday

Washington: \x93One in a Million" Rare Disease Patient Describes Incredible
Perseverance On the #Path2Cures

LENGTH: 334  words

DATELINE: New York



 Washington, DC: Energy & Commerce Committee United States House of
Representatives  has issued the following press release:



 Battling disease is tough enough, but one rare disease patient advocate
recently chronicled a harsh and difficult reality facing a number of patients -
abandonment by loved ones after diagnosis. Angela Davis writes about her
"21-year odyssey" toward being diagnosed with Stiff-person syndrome in The
Mighty. According to the National Organization for Rare Diseases, Stiff-person
syndrome "is a rare acquired neurological disorder characterized by progressive
muscle stiffness (rigidity) and repeated muscle spasms." It is a disease that
affects one in a million.





 Angela writes, "The first assumption: your biological parents and family will
rush to your aid. I held this one within a tiny crevice of hope in my heart. My
family began their gradual push away from me the moment I started to become
seriously ill. I thought with my diagnosis nailed down at last, they'd care
more. I was wrong. As soon as I received my diagnosis, my parents made it clear
they wanted nothing to do with me anymore."



 But like most rare disease patients, Angela is a fighter, she persevered, and
now sees hope in the effort to deliver #CuresNow. She writes, "If you know any
rare disease patient and want to help, insist your state senators,
representatives, and the president finally vote for and advance #CuresNow to
give us a fighting chance in medical research funding of treatments and cures.
Rare disease patients pave the way for advancements in medicine for every
person, which can help you and your family's well-being too."



 Angela closes with an important message, "Lastly, please offer anyone close to
you with a rare disease your support, practical help, and your cherished
kindness."



 Thanks for sharing your story, Angela. You're never alone on the #Path2Cures.



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact:

 editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              62 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                              Daily The Pak Banker

                            January 13, 2015 Tuesday

Shire to Acquire NPS Pharma as Further Step in Building a Leading Biotech

LENGTH: 2101  words

DATELINE: Ireland


Shire has issued the following news release:

Shire plc (LSE: SHP, NASDAQ: SHPG) and NPS Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (NASDAQ: NPSP)
today announced that the companies have entered into a merger agreement pursuant
to which Shire will acquire all the outstanding shares of NPS Pharma for $46.00
per share in cash, for a total consideration of approximately $5.2 billion.
Shire will accelerate the growth of NPS Pharma's innovative portfolio through
its market expertise in gastrointestinal (GI) disorders, core capabilities in
rare disease patient management, and global footprint. The transaction has been
approved unanimously by the Boards of Directors of both Shire and NPS Pharma.

NPS Pharma is a rare disease-focused biopharmaceutical company and its first
product, GATTEX®/REVESTIVE® (teduglutide [rDNA origin]) for injection, is
approved in the United States and Europe1 to treat adults with short bowel
syndrome (SBS) who are dependent on parenteral support. NPS Pharma also has a
registration phase product, NATPARA®/NATPAR® (rhPTH -83) for the treatment of
hypoparathyroidism (HPT).

The $46.00 per share price in the transaction represents a 51% premium to NPS
Pharma's unaffected share price of $30.47 on December 16, 2014.

1In Europe, Revestive is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with
short bowel syndrome who should be stable following a period of intestinal
adaptation after surgery.

Transaction highlights

Excellent strategic fit; strengthens Shire's focus on rare diseases while
leveraging industry-leading GI commercial capabilities and global footprint
    Shire anticipates enhanced revenue and earnings growth profile
    Adds innovative product portfolio with multiple growth catalysts:
        GATTEX/REVESTIVE (teduglutide [rDNA origin]) with growing sales for the
treatment of adults with SBS, a rare GI condition
        NATPARA/NATPAR (rhPTH -83), if approved, would be the only bioengineered
hormone replacement therapy for use in the treatment of HPT, a rare endocrine
disease
    Shire expects transaction to be accretive to Non GAAP EPS from 2016 onward
    Acquisition to be effected by a tender offer and funded from Shire's cash
resources, as well as existing and new bank facilities
    Conference call for investors today (full details below)

Shire's Chief Executive Officer, Flemming Ornskov, MD, MPH, commented:

"The acquisition of NPS Pharma is a significant step in advancing Shire's
strategy to become a leading biotechnology company. With our global strength and
expertise in both rare diseases and GI, Shire is uniquely positioned to drive
the continued success of GATTEX/REVESTIVE, and, if approved, commercialize NPS
Pharma's pipeline compound NATPARA/NATPAR.

"We look forward to accelerating the growth of the NPS Pharma portfolio based on
our proven track record of maximizing value from acquired assets and commercial
execution. The NPS Pharma organization will be a welcome addition to Shire as we
continue to help transform the lives of patients with rare diseases."

Francois Nader, MD, President, Chief Executive Officer and Director of NPS
Pharma, stated:
"Shire shares NPS Pharma's commitment to patients with rare diseases. We believe
that joining our two companies will drive value for shareholders and ensure we
continue to transform the lives of patients with short bowel syndrome,
hypoparathyroidism, and autosomal dominant hypocalcemia worldwide. I am
confident that this transaction will accelerate our ambition of creating a world
where every person living with a rare disease has a therapy.

I would like to thank all of our employees for their continued outstanding
contributions and steadfast commitment to the patients we serve."

Information on NPS Pharma

NPS Pharma is a commercial-stage rare disease-focused biopharmaceutical company,
whose first product, GATTEX (teduglutide [rDNA origin]) for injection, has been
launched in the U.S. to treat adults with short bowel syndrome (SBS). NPS Pharma
is in the process of launching the product in Europe under the trade name
REVESTIVE. NPS Pharma's second product rhPTH -83 (NATPARA in the U.S. / NATPAR
in Europe) is currently under review in the U.S. and Europe for the treatment
for hypoparathyroidism (HPT). NPS Pharma has an ongoing Phase 2a study
evaluating its lead pipeline candidate NPSP795 for the treatment of adults with
autosomal dominant hypocalcemia. NPS Pharma has an operational presence in the
U.S., Canada, Europe, Latin America and Japan. The value of NPS Pharma's gross
assets were $282.2 million with net assets totaling $130.9 million as of
September 30, 2014. NPS Pharma's losses before tax for the three and nine month
periods ending September 30, 2014 were $1.9 million and $6.2 million,
respectively.

Information on GATTEX/REVESTIVE

In the United States, GATTEX (teduglutide [rDNA origin]) for injection is
approved  for the long-term treatment of adults with short bowel syndrome (SBS)
who need parenteral support. GATTEX is the first analog of GLP-2 approved to
treat SBS, a disease which may require patients to get their nutrition
intravenously through a central line.

SBS is a condition in which a large portion of the intestine has been removed by
surgery. As a result, people can't absorb enough nutrients or fluids from food
and liquids to maintain good health. It can also be caused by disease or injury
that prevents the small intestine from functioning properly despite normal
length. To make up for the inadequate absorption, intravenous (IV) feeding
(parenteral support) may be prescribed to help the patient stay healthy.

In the U.S., approximately 6,000-7,000 SBS patients are dependent on parenteral
support with a similar prevalence in Europe.2

GATTEX has received orphan drug designation from the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration (FDA) and was approved in December 2012. GATTEX generated sales
of $67.9 million in the nine months ending September 30, 2014.

In Europe, REVESTIVE has been launched in Germany and Sweden.

Information on NATPARA/NATPAR

NATPARA/NATPAR, NPS Pharma's parathyroid hormone (rhPTH -83) for the treatment
of hypoparathyroidism (HPT), a rare endocrine disorder characterized by
insufficient levels of parathyroid hormone (PTH), is currently under review in
the U.S. with an FDA Prescription Drug User Fee Act (PDUFA) action date for the
Biologics License Application (BLA) on January 24, 2015. In Europe, the European
Medicines Agency (EMA) has validated and initiated its review of NPS Pharma's
marketing authorization application (MAA) for NATPAR.

HPT is a rare condition in which the parathyroid glands fail to produce
sufficient amounts of PTH or where PTH lacks biologic activity. PTH plays a
central role in a variety of critical physiological functions in the body. In
patients with HPT, insufficient levels of PTH lead to many physiological
abnormalities, including low serum calcium and an inability to convert native
vitamin D into its active state to properly absorb dietary calcium.

In the U.S., approximately 75,000 patients are diagnosed with HPT with 41,000
having moderate to severe disease with a similar prevalence in EU5 (France,
Germany, United Kingdom, Italy and Spain).3

Acute symptoms of HPT are largely due to low serum calcium and range from muscle
pain and tingling, to lack of focus or ability to concentrate, and anxiety and
depression. In extreme cases, life-threatening events, such as arrhythmias and
seizures, may occur. In the absence of an approved parathyroid replacement
therapy, the standard approach focuses on using large doses of calcium and
active vitamin D to increase calcium levels in the blood and reduce the severity
of symptoms. However, balancing the administration of large doses of calcium and
vitamin D is challenging due to calcium fluctuations and the long-term use of
this regimen may lead to serious complications. In addition, calcium and vitamin
D do not correct the abnormal bone metabolism due to PTH deficiency or enable
the activation of vitamin D.

2NA HPEN Patient Registry. Oley Foundation. 1994
3Powers et al., Prev. and Incid. of HPT in the USA, large cohort study, DOI
10.1002/jbmr.2004, (2013)

Additional value from NPS Pharma's licenced products and pipeline

NPS Pharma currently has several successful partnerships in place. Amgen markets
cinacalcet HCl as Sensipar® in the U.S. and as Mimpara® in the EU; Janssen
Pharmaceuticals markets tapentadol as Nucynta® in the U.S.; and Kyowa Hakko
Kirin markets cinacalcet HCI as Regpara® in Japan, Hong Kong, Malaysia, Macau,
Singapore, and Taiwan.

NPS Pharma earned  royalty revenues of $123.8 million for 2013 and $89.5 million
for the first nine months ending September 30, 2014.

NPS Pharma is developing teduglutide as a treatment for pediatric SBS. NPS
Pharma is currently conducting a global study for teduglutide in pediatric
patients with SBS who are dependent on parenteral support.

NPS Pharma is also investigating NPSP795, a small molecule antagonist of the
calcium-sensing receptor, which is believed to play a role in the distribution
of PTH -83 throughout the body by antagonizing calcium-sensing receptors on the
parathyroid gland to trigger a release of the body's stores of PTH -83. NPSP795
is in development as a treatment for autosomal dominant hypocalcemia (ADH).
There is no approved therapy for this ultra-rare, life-long genetic disorder
that affects both adults and children.

Following the above transactions, Dr. Gillis holds 674 ADSs. One ADS is equal to
three ordinary shares of 5 pence each in the Company.

Financial benefit to Shire

The acquisition of NPS Pharma is expected to enhance Shire's revenue and
earnings growth profile. Shire expects the transaction to be accretive to Non
GAAP EPS from 2016 onward.

Related to the acquisition, Shire anticipates that it will realize operating
synergies beginning in 2016 and growing substantially thereafter. Shire
anticipates synergies approximating 25-35% of the Street's consensus forecast of
NPS Pharma's standalone future operating cost base from 2017 onward.

Shire also expects that the transaction will deliver ROIC in excess of its
weighted average cost of capital.

Financing

Shire has secured an $850 million fully underwritten short-term bank facility,
which, in addition to Shire's cash and cash equivalents and its existing $2.1
billion five-year revolving credit facility, is available to finance the
transaction and pay related fees and expenses. Shire plans to refinance the
short-term bank facility through new debt issuances in due course.

Closing

The acquisition is structured as an all-cash tender offer for all of the
outstanding shares of NPS Pharma at a price of $46.00 per share followed by a
merger in which each remaining untendered share of NPS Pharma common stock would
be converted into the same $46.00 cash per share consideration as in the tender
offer.

The closing of the transaction is subject to customary conditions, including the
tender of a majority of the outstanding NPS Pharma shares and the receipt of
Hart-Scott-Rodino clearance. Pending such closing conditions, it is anticipated
that the transaction will close in the first quarter of 2015.

Citigroup Global Markets Limited and Lazard are acting as joint financial
advisors to Shire. Goldman, Sachs & Co. and Leerink Partners LLC are acting as
financial advisors to NPS Pharma. Davis Polk & Wardwell LLP and Slaughter & May
are acting as legal advisors to Shire and Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom
LLP is acting as legal advisor to NPS Pharma.

Conference Call with CEOs from Shire and NPS Pharma

Live conference call for investors:

Flemming Ornskov, MD, MPH, Chief Executive Officer; Jeff Poulton, Interim Chief
Financial Officer; Mark Enyedy, Head of Corporate Development and Interim
General Counsel; Roger Adsett, [#x200e]Senior Vice President, GI Business Unit
Leader, all of Shire Pharmaceuticals; and Francois Nader, MD, MBA, President,
Chief Executive Officer and Director, NPS Pharmaceuticals, Inc. will host a
conference call for investors and analysts today (Sunday, January 11, 2015) at
6:00 p.m. GMT/1:00 .pm. EST/10:00 a.m. PST.

The details of the conference call are as follows:

UK dial in:

0808 237 0030 or 020 3139 4830

U.S. dial in:


1 866 928 7517 or 1 718 873 9077

International Access Numbers:


Click here

Password/Conf ID:


24757209#

Live Webcast:


Click here

Replay:
A replay of the presentation will be available for two weeks by phone and by
webcast for three months.

UK dial in:


0808 237 0026 or 020 3426 2807

U.S. dial in:


1 866 535 8030

Password/Conf ID:


653478#

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              63 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                              Daily The Pak Banker

                            January 13, 2015 Tuesday

Shire to Acquire NPS Pharma as Further Step in Building a Leading Biotech

LENGTH: 2101  words

DATELINE: Ireland


Shire has issued the following news release:

Shire plc (LSE: SHP, NASDAQ: SHPG) and NPS Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (NASDAQ: NPSP)
today announced that the companies have entered into a merger agreement pursuant
to which Shire will acquire all the outstanding shares of NPS Pharma for $46.00
per share in cash, for a total consideration of approximately $5.2 billion.
Shire will accelerate the growth of NPS Pharma's innovative portfolio through
its market expertise in gastrointestinal (GI) disorders, core capabilities in
rare disease patient management, and global footprint. The transaction has been
approved unanimously by the Boards of Directors of both Shire and NPS Pharma.

NPS Pharma is a rare disease-focused biopharmaceutical company and its first
product, GATTEX®/REVESTIVE® (teduglutide [rDNA origin]) for injection, is
approved in the United States and Europe1 to treat adults with short bowel
syndrome (SBS) who are dependent on parenteral support. NPS Pharma also has a
registration phase product, NATPARA®/NATPAR® (rhPTH -83) for the treatment of
hypoparathyroidism (HPT).

The $46.00 per share price in the transaction represents a 51% premium to NPS
Pharma's unaffected share price of $30.47 on December 16, 2014.

1In Europe, Revestive is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with
short bowel syndrome who should be stable following a period of intestinal
adaptation after surgery.

Transaction highlights

Excellent strategic fit; strengthens Shire's focus on rare diseases while
leveraging industry-leading GI commercial capabilities and global footprint
    Shire anticipates enhanced revenue and earnings growth profile
    Adds innovative product portfolio with multiple growth catalysts:
        GATTEX/REVESTIVE (teduglutide [rDNA origin]) with growing sales for the
treatment of adults with SBS, a rare GI condition
        NATPARA/NATPAR (rhPTH -83), if approved, would be the only bioengineered
hormone replacement therapy for use in the treatment of HPT, a rare endocrine
disease
    Shire expects transaction to be accretive to Non GAAP EPS from 2016 onward
    Acquisition to be effected by a tender offer and funded from Shire's cash
resources, as well as existing and new bank facilities
    Conference call for investors today (full details below)

Shire's Chief Executive Officer, Flemming Ornskov, MD, MPH, commented:

"The acquisition of NPS Pharma is a significant step in advancing Shire's
strategy to become a leading biotechnology company. With our global strength and
expertise in both rare diseases and GI, Shire is uniquely positioned to drive
the continued success of GATTEX/REVESTIVE, and, if approved, commercialize NPS
Pharma's pipeline compound NATPARA/NATPAR.

"We look forward to accelerating the growth of the NPS Pharma portfolio based on
our proven track record of maximizing value from acquired assets and commercial
execution. The NPS Pharma organization will be a welcome addition to Shire as we
continue to help transform the lives of patients with rare diseases."

Francois Nader, MD, President, Chief Executive Officer and Director of NPS
Pharma, stated:
"Shire shares NPS Pharma's commitment to patients with rare diseases. We believe
that joining our two companies will drive value for shareholders and ensure we
continue to transform the lives of patients with short bowel syndrome,
hypoparathyroidism, and autosomal dominant hypocalcemia worldwide. I am
confident that this transaction will accelerate our ambition of creating a world
where every person living with a rare disease has a therapy.

I would like to thank all of our employees for their continued outstanding
contributions and steadfast commitment to the patients we serve."

Information on NPS Pharma

NPS Pharma is a commercial-stage rare disease-focused biopharmaceutical company,
whose first product, GATTEX (teduglutide [rDNA origin]) for injection, has been
launched in the U.S. to treat adults with short bowel syndrome (SBS). NPS Pharma
is in the process of launching the product in Europe under the trade name
REVESTIVE. NPS Pharma's second product rhPTH -83 (NATPARA in the U.S. / NATPAR
in Europe) is currently under review in the U.S. and Europe for the treatment
for hypoparathyroidism (HPT). NPS Pharma has an ongoing Phase 2a study
evaluating its lead pipeline candidate NPSP795 for the treatment of adults with
autosomal dominant hypocalcemia. NPS Pharma has an operational presence in the
U.S., Canada, Europe, Latin America and Japan. The value of NPS Pharma's gross
assets were $282.2 million with net assets totaling $130.9 million as of
September 30, 2014. NPS Pharma's losses before tax for the three and nine month
periods ending September 30, 2014 were $1.9 million and $6.2 million,
respectively.

Information on GATTEX/REVESTIVE

In the United States, GATTEX (teduglutide [rDNA origin]) for injection is
approved  for the long-term treatment of adults with short bowel syndrome (SBS)
who need parenteral support. GATTEX is the first analog of GLP-2 approved to
treat SBS, a disease which may require patients to get their nutrition
intravenously through a central line.

SBS is a condition in which a large portion of the intestine has been removed by
surgery. As a result, people can't absorb enough nutrients or fluids from food
and liquids to maintain good health. It can also be caused by disease or injury
that prevents the small intestine from functioning properly despite normal
length. To make up for the inadequate absorption, intravenous (IV) feeding
(parenteral support) may be prescribed to help the patient stay healthy.

In the U.S., approximately 6,000-7,000 SBS patients are dependent on parenteral
support with a similar prevalence in Europe.2

GATTEX has received orphan drug designation from the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration (FDA) and was approved in December 2012. GATTEX generated sales
of $67.9 million in the nine months ending September 30, 2014.

In Europe, REVESTIVE has been launched in Germany and Sweden.

Information on NATPARA/NATPAR

NATPARA/NATPAR, NPS Pharma's parathyroid hormone (rhPTH -83) for the treatment
of hypoparathyroidism (HPT), a rare endocrine disorder characterized by
insufficient levels of parathyroid hormone (PTH), is currently under review in
the U.S. with an FDA Prescription Drug User Fee Act (PDUFA) action date for the
Biologics License Application (BLA) on January 24, 2015. In Europe, the European
Medicines Agency (EMA) has validated and initiated its review of NPS Pharma's
marketing authorization application (MAA) for NATPAR.

HPT is a rare condition in which the parathyroid glands fail to produce
sufficient amounts of PTH or where PTH lacks biologic activity. PTH plays a
central role in a variety of critical physiological functions in the body. In
patients with HPT, insufficient levels of PTH lead to many physiological
abnormalities, including low serum calcium and an inability to convert native
vitamin D into its active state to properly absorb dietary calcium.

In the U.S., approximately 75,000 patients are diagnosed with HPT with 41,000
having moderate to severe disease with a similar prevalence in EU5 (France,
Germany, United Kingdom, Italy and Spain).3

Acute symptoms of HPT are largely due to low serum calcium and range from muscle
pain and tingling, to lack of focus or ability to concentrate, and anxiety and
depression. In extreme cases, life-threatening events, such as arrhythmias and
seizures, may occur. In the absence of an approved parathyroid replacement
therapy, the standard approach focuses on using large doses of calcium and
active vitamin D to increase calcium levels in the blood and reduce the severity
of symptoms. However, balancing the administration of large doses of calcium and
vitamin D is challenging due to calcium fluctuations and the long-term use of
this regimen may lead to serious complications. In addition, calcium and vitamin
D do not correct the abnormal bone metabolism due to PTH deficiency or enable
the activation of vitamin D.

2NA HPEN Patient Registry. Oley Foundation. 1994
3Powers et al., Prev. and Incid. of HPT in the USA, large cohort study, DOI
10.1002/jbmr.2004, (2013)

Additional value from NPS Pharma's licenced products and pipeline

NPS Pharma currently has several successful partnerships in place. Amgen markets
cinacalcet HCl as Sensipar® in the U.S. and as Mimpara® in the EU; Janssen
Pharmaceuticals markets tapentadol as Nucynta® in the U.S.; and Kyowa Hakko
Kirin markets cinacalcet HCI as Regpara® in Japan, Hong Kong, Malaysia, Macau,
Singapore, and Taiwan.

NPS Pharma earned  royalty revenues of $123.8 million for 2013 and $89.5 million
for the first nine months ending September 30, 2014.

NPS Pharma is developing teduglutide as a treatment for pediatric SBS. NPS
Pharma is currently conducting a global study for teduglutide in pediatric
patients with SBS who are dependent on parenteral support.

NPS Pharma is also investigating NPSP795, a small molecule antagonist of the
calcium-sensing receptor, which is believed to play a role in the distribution
of PTH -83 throughout the body by antagonizing calcium-sensing receptors on the
parathyroid gland to trigger a release of the body's stores of PTH -83. NPSP795
is in development as a treatment for autosomal dominant hypocalcemia (ADH).
There is no approved therapy for this ultra-rare, life-long genetic disorder
that affects both adults and children.

Following the above transactions, Dr. Gillis holds 674 ADSs. One ADS is equal to
three ordinary shares of 5 pence each in the Company.

Financial benefit to Shire

The acquisition of NPS Pharma is expected to enhance Shire's revenue and
earnings growth profile. Shire expects the transaction to be accretive to Non
GAAP EPS from 2016 onward.

Related to the acquisition, Shire anticipates that it will realize operating
synergies beginning in 2016 and growing substantially thereafter. Shire
anticipates synergies approximating 25-35% of the Street's consensus forecast of
NPS Pharma's standalone future operating cost base from 2017 onward.

Shire also expects that the transaction will deliver ROIC in excess of its
weighted average cost of capital.

Financing

Shire has secured an $850 million fully underwritten short-term bank facility,
which, in addition to Shire's cash and cash equivalents and its existing $2.1
billion five-year revolving credit facility, is available to finance the
transaction and pay related fees and expenses. Shire plans to refinance the
short-term bank facility through new debt issuances in due course.

Closing

The acquisition is structured as an all-cash tender offer for all of the
outstanding shares of NPS Pharma at a price of $46.00 per share followed by a
merger in which each remaining untendered share of NPS Pharma common stock would
be converted into the same $46.00 cash per share consideration as in the tender
offer.

The closing of the transaction is subject to customary conditions, including the
tender of a majority of the outstanding NPS Pharma shares and the receipt of
Hart-Scott-Rodino clearance. Pending such closing conditions, it is anticipated
that the transaction will close in the first quarter of 2015.

Citigroup Global Markets Limited and Lazard are acting as joint financial
advisors to Shire. Goldman, Sachs & Co. and Leerink Partners LLC are acting as
financial advisors to NPS Pharma. Davis Polk & Wardwell LLP and Slaughter & May
are acting as legal advisors to Shire and Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom
LLP is acting as legal advisor to NPS Pharma.

Conference Call with CEOs from Shire and NPS Pharma

Live conference call for investors:

Flemming Ornskov, MD, MPH, Chief Executive Officer; Jeff Poulton, Interim Chief
Financial Officer; Mark Enyedy, Head of Corporate Development and Interim
General Counsel; Roger Adsett, [#x200e]Senior Vice President, GI Business Unit
Leader, all of Shire Pharmaceuticals; and Francois Nader, MD, MBA, President,
Chief Executive Officer and Director, NPS Pharmaceuticals, Inc. will host a
conference call for investors and analysts today (Sunday, January 11, 2015) at
6:00 p.m. GMT/1:00 .pm. EST/10:00 a.m. PST.

The details of the conference call are as follows:

UK dial in:

0808 237 0030 or 020 3139 4830

U.S. dial in:


1 866 928 7517 or 1 718 873 9077

International Access Numbers:


Click here

Password/Conf ID:


24757209#

Live Webcast:


Click here

Replay:
A replay of the presentation will be available for two weeks by phone and by
webcast for three months.

UK dial in:


0808 237 0026 or 020 3426 2807

U.S. dial in:


1 866 535 8030

Password/Conf ID:


653478#

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              64 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                        July 29, 2013 Monday 6:30 AM EST

Sandwell and West Birmingham Hospitals: Nurse Wins Supercar in Raffle for Rare
Disease Group

LENGTH: 292  words


New Delhi, July 29 -- A nurse from City Hospital has won the chance to live like
a celebrity for the day and drive a luxury sports car - and raised money for a
worthwhile cause in the process.



The local Behcet's Syndrome Society group, which supports people from across the
Midlands who have this rare disease, raffled tickets to raise funds, with the
star prize being 24 hours with a 100,000 Audi R8 convertible. The group meets
monthly at the Birmingham Behcet's Syndrome Centre of Excellence, which is based
at City Hospital, part of Sandwell and West Birmingham Hospitals NHS Trust.

Debbie Mitton, who is lead nurse and manager of the Behcet's Syndrome Centre of
Excellence, was the surprise winner of the raffle, which was being held to
coincide with a 'Behcet's in a Day' education event at City Hospital.

The study day was attended by doctors, nurses and other health professionals
from across the country, and aimed to tell them more about the symptoms and
treatment of this disease, which affects just 500 or so people in the UK.
Altogether, 170 was raised from the raffle.

Debbie, who is from Wombourne, said: "Behcet's syndrome is a rare condition that
causes inflammation of the blood vessels, with symptoms including mouth and
genital ulcers, eye inflammation and skin lesions, and can lead to arthritis,
bowel inflammation and meningitis.

"Having worked at the centre since November 2012, I have seen at first-hand how
the local group does so much for people in the area with this rare disease,
offering support, sharing advice and treatments and even running a helpline. I
am so glad that the funds raised will continue to help the group flourish, and
of course I am thrilled - if a little nervous - that a supercar will now be at
my disposal!"

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2013 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              65 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                     XPRESS

                                 March 1, 2013

Lack of UAE data in focus on Rare Disease Day

LENGTH: 515 words


Dubai: In a show of solidarity with more than 250 UAE children with rare
diseases and their families on the occasion of Rare Disease Day, the Shaikh
Hamdan Bin Rashid Al Maktoum Award for Medical Sciences held an open day on
Thursday at Children's City, Creek Park, Dubai.

On and around February 28, hundreds of organisations from more than 60 countries
and regions worldwide hold awareness programmes highlighting the slogan 'Rare
Disorders without Borders'.

According to the organisers of the open day, there are between 6,000 to 8,000
rare diseases that have been documented. Patients suffering from these diseases
often face difficulties such as delayed or wrongful diagnosis, psychological
consequences and inadequate scientific support.

In the UAE, the incidence of rare diseases cannot be ascertained for want of a
central registry.

Dr Fatima Bastaki, consultant paediatrician in clinical genetics and metabolism
at Latifa Hospital and head of the campaign's organising committee, said that
the Centre for Arab Genomic Studies, a division of the Award for Medical
Sciences, has catalogued 350 rare genetic disorders in Arab populations.

She told Gulf News that the actual figure could be two to four times higher.
"Due to a lack of nationwide statistical information and given the number of
patients with rare diseases, the number will definitely be higher," she said.

The World Health Organisation (WHO) states that rare diseases range from cystic
fibrosis and haemophilia to Angelman Syndrome, with an incidence of about 1 in
15,000, to Opitz trigonocephaly syndrome, which is extremely rare with about one
case per million people.

Eight out of 10 cases of rare diseases have genetic origins and five to 7 out of
10 cases affect children, Dr Fatima said. "Consanguinity increases this risk,
especially as intermarriages between relatives is common in countries like the
UAE," she said.

Patients with rare diseases and their families feel isolated and vulnerable,
said Dr Fatima Al Jasmi, Assistant Professor in biochemical genetics at the
United Arab University (UAEU). "We need to change the societal attitude towards
people with rare diseases and look at inclusion at all levels, from education to
labour market." [#x2028]She recommended natal and pre-marital screenings to
check for genetic diseases.

Mohammad Ishtiaq, from Pakistan, whose six-year-old son Sufian has a rare
metabolic disorder, told Gulf News that his third and youngest son suffers
frequent bouts of high fever. "The doctors didn't know what was wrong for
months. He was diagnosed at two years of age. There should be more research into
rare diseases and support services like special education, occupational therapy
and medical insurance cover should be introduced. It is a struggle both
financially and socially to raise a child without such services."

In the UAE, the open day was part of a week-long campaign that was rolled out in
three phases - mall-wide awareness activities to educate residents about rare
diseases, observance of the Rare Diseases Day, and the concluding Zayed Bin
Mohammed family gathering at Al Khawanij.

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 58


                  Copyright 2013 XPRESS - Al Nisr Media FZ LLC
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              66 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                         Daily Dispatch (South Africa)

                             March 4, 2014 Tuesday

FACTS ABOUT RETT SYNDROME

BYLINE: Vuvu Vena

SECTION: HEALTH

LENGTH: 355 words


By
 Health Reporter
 KELLY du Plessis, founder of the Rare Diseases Society of South Africa, said
Rett syndrome affects one in 12000 girls and is rarely seen in boys.
 Because there is no registry for rare diseases, Du Plessis said it was
difficult to tell how many South Africans suffered from it.


 Du Plessis explained there were four stages for the condition:
 lThe first is the slowed development stage, which affects girls at six to 18
months.
 At this stage one notices floppiness, difficulty in feeding, less interest in
social contact and eye contact, abnormal hand movements like clapping and
jumpiness, loss of interest in toys and an awkward walk;
 lThe second stage, regression, occurs between the ages of one to four and can
last for a few weeks or even months.
 The child is no longer able to use her hands normally and abnormal hand
movements take over; she becomes withdrawn socially, begins to have fits, her
walk is awkward and unsteady, her head starts to drop off the curve, she
develops eating and chewing difficulties and slower breathing;
 lStage three is the plateau phase from age two to 10.
 At this stage 70% of the children start to develop epilepsy.
 Generally there is a slow improvement in their behaviour. They begin
stabilising; and
 lThe last phase can last for years. The child starts to lose mobility and may
even lose the ability to walk. They also start experiencing muscle weakness and
scoliosis.
 The cause of Rett Syndrome is unclear, but it has been found that most children
with the condition have a mutation in a particular gene on the X chromosome.
 How it mutates or which gene is affected is unclear.
 Though genetic, it is not hereditary.
 Boys who develop Rett Syndrome usually die shortly after birth because they
only have one X chromosome.
 There is no cure.
 "All you've got is just treating the symptoms that develop," Du Plessis said.
 She encouraged parents and families with loved ones who have rare diseases to
visit http://www.rarediseases.co.za and sign up - it is a free membership, which
may assist in formulating a rare disease registry for South Africa. -
vuyiswav@dispatch.co.za

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: Daily Dispatch


                    Copyright 2014 BDFM Publishers PTY Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              67 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           September 19, 2016 Monday

Washington: Grandparents Rally to Help Deliver #CuresNow to Toddler in the
\x93Fight for His Life"

LENGTH: 710  words

DATELINE: New York



 Washington, DC: Energy & Commerce Committee United States House of
Representatives  has issued the following press release:



 Two-year-old Spencer Robert Smith was recently diagnosed with MPS-III,
Sanfilippo syndrome. The rare, genetic disease has launched his grandparents
into action to find a cure for their sweet and always smiling grandson.





 The disease, which affects the brain and spinal cord, has no known cure and is
progressive. Children with the disease experience deafness, blindness,
paralysis, and seizures. Spencer's grandmother, Linda Hinman, described it as
Alzheimer's disease for children. Naturally, Spencer's family has been trying to
do anything and everything to reverse the disease's course. Spencer already has
a 40 percent permanent hearing loss, and some trouble with balance.



 When the doctor delivered the news of Spencer's rare disease, Linda says, "she
told us there are no cures for rare diseases like Spencer's because there is not
enough funding for research."



 So, Spencer's family began doing some research of their own and came across the
#Path2Cures. Since then, they have been encouraging friends and family to help
spread the word about legislation that would bring hope for helping kids like
Spencer find cures and treatments.



 "The 21st Century Cures Act could help save children's lives, because it would
provide funds to the National Institute of Health and the Food and Drug
Administration to help find cures for these rare diseases," Linda
explained.Spencer Robert Smith was a happy baby, growing and developing into a
healthy toddler except for some seemingly minor issues like frequent congestion,
balance problems, enlarged adenoids and fluid in his ears.



 But a few weeks ago, his family received the devastating news that he was
diagnosed with MPS-III, Sanfilippo Syndrome, "a rare, incurable, insidious,
progressive, and fatal disease," grandparents Linda and Kirk Hinman explained.



 Spencer "faces a progressive and fatal decline: deafness, blindness, seizures,
paralysis, organ shutdown and death," the couple said, as the disease attacks
his muscular and neurological systems. "Each child afflicted starts the downhill
progression at his or her own rate," they said.



 According to a Sanfilippo Syndrome support website, the lifespan of an affected
child does not usually extend beyond late teens to early twenties.



 The Hinmans -- including parents Nate and Alli (Hinman) Smith -- are hoping to
help change the course of the disease, not just for Spencer, but for all
children and families impacted by Sanfilippo Syndrome and other rare diseases by
raising awareness of these conditions, Linda said, and also by convincing New
York State's two senators in Washington, D.C., to vote for the 21st Century
Cures Act.



 This legislation, the Hinman's say, can help fund research into Sanfilippo
Syndrome and other rare incurable diseases that affect children like their
two-year-old grandson.



 The 21st Century Cures Act was passed by the House of Representatives last year
and was co-sponsored by Rep. Richard L. Hanna, R-22, Barneveld. The bill, the
Hinmans said, would "provide funds to the National Institute of Health and the
Food and Drug Administration to help find cures for these rare diseases." ...



 "Spencer is the sweetest 2-year-old you'd ever meet," the Hinmans said. "Since
birth, his temperament has been happy and good natured, and he's always smiling.
Like all toddlers, he loves to splash in the pool with his daddy, dance in the
yard with his mommy, explore new things, gets excited about introducing you to
his friends in his limited vocabulary of speaking and signing, and pet every
puppy dog he can get his hands on."



 "But, unlike most 2-year-olds, Spencer is dying. He is in a literal fight for
his life," the couple added.



 His decline has already begun, they noted. He has a 40 percent permanent
hearing loss and some balance issues. These issues will be followed by
additional degenerative conditions that will slowly rob Spencer of his ability
to communicate, move about and develop like other children.



 The couple likened the disease to Alzheimer's for children.



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact:

 editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              68 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           September 19, 2016 Monday

Washington: Grandparents Rally to Help Deliver #CuresNow to Toddler in the
\x93Fight for His Life"

LENGTH: 710  words

DATELINE: New York



 Washington, DC: Energy & Commerce Committee United States House of
Representatives  has issued the following press release:



 Two-year-old Spencer Robert Smith was recently diagnosed with MPS-III,
Sanfilippo syndrome. The rare, genetic disease has launched his grandparents
into action to find a cure for their sweet and always smiling grandson.





 The disease, which affects the brain and spinal cord, has no known cure and is
progressive. Children with the disease experience deafness, blindness,
paralysis, and seizures. Spencer's grandmother, Linda Hinman, described it as
Alzheimer's disease for children. Naturally, Spencer's family has been trying to
do anything and everything to reverse the disease's course. Spencer already has
a 40 percent permanent hearing loss, and some trouble with balance.



 When the doctor delivered the news of Spencer's rare disease, Linda says, "she
told us there are no cures for rare diseases like Spencer's because there is not
enough funding for research."



 So, Spencer's family began doing some research of their own and came across the
#Path2Cures. Since then, they have been encouraging friends and family to help
spread the word about legislation that would bring hope for helping kids like
Spencer find cures and treatments.



 "The 21st Century Cures Act could help save children's lives, because it would
provide funds to the National Institute of Health and the Food and Drug
Administration to help find cures for these rare diseases," Linda
explained.Spencer Robert Smith was a happy baby, growing and developing into a
healthy toddler except for some seemingly minor issues like frequent congestion,
balance problems, enlarged adenoids and fluid in his ears.



 But a few weeks ago, his family received the devastating news that he was
diagnosed with MPS-III, Sanfilippo Syndrome, "a rare, incurable, insidious,
progressive, and fatal disease," grandparents Linda and Kirk Hinman explained.



 Spencer "faces a progressive and fatal decline: deafness, blindness, seizures,
paralysis, organ shutdown and death," the couple said, as the disease attacks
his muscular and neurological systems. "Each child afflicted starts the downhill
progression at his or her own rate," they said.



 According to a Sanfilippo Syndrome support website, the lifespan of an affected
child does not usually extend beyond late teens to early twenties.



 The Hinmans -- including parents Nate and Alli (Hinman) Smith -- are hoping to
help change the course of the disease, not just for Spencer, but for all
children and families impacted by Sanfilippo Syndrome and other rare diseases by
raising awareness of these conditions, Linda said, and also by convincing New
York State's two senators in Washington, D.C., to vote for the 21st Century
Cures Act.



 This legislation, the Hinman's say, can help fund research into Sanfilippo
Syndrome and other rare incurable diseases that affect children like their
two-year-old grandson.



 The 21st Century Cures Act was passed by the House of Representatives last year
and was co-sponsored by Rep. Richard L. Hanna, R-22, Barneveld. The bill, the
Hinmans said, would "provide funds to the National Institute of Health and the
Food and Drug Administration to help find cures for these rare diseases." ...



 "Spencer is the sweetest 2-year-old you'd ever meet," the Hinmans said. "Since
birth, his temperament has been happy and good natured, and he's always smiling.
Like all toddlers, he loves to splash in the pool with his daddy, dance in the
yard with his mommy, explore new things, gets excited about introducing you to
his friends in his limited vocabulary of speaking and signing, and pet every
puppy dog he can get his hands on."



 "But, unlike most 2-year-olds, Spencer is dying. He is in a literal fight for
his life," the couple added.



 His decline has already begun, they noted. He has a 40 percent permanent
hearing loss and some balance issues. These issues will be followed by
additional degenerative conditions that will slowly rob Spencer of his ability
to communicate, move about and develop like other children.



 The couple likened the disease to Alzheimer's for children.



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact:

 editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              69 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                              March 7, 2016 Monday

CM asked to show urgency in treatment of LSD patients

SECTION: JAIPUR

LENGTH: 1017 words


JAIPUR: Lysosomal Storage Disorders Support Society (LSDSS) has appealed to
chief minister Vasudhara Raje to show urgency for the treatment of patients with
this rare disease. Five children with the disease have already died in the
recent past. LSDSS has submitted a letter of appeal with patients' medical
certificates and other relevant documents to government officials including
health minister Rajendra Rathore urging them to take a step for providing
treatment to children suffering from lysosomal storage disorders (LSDs).
Majority of children with LSD are unable to get treatment as its yearly cost is
estimated to be Rs 1 crore. A patient requires treatment throughout life."My son
is suffering from Hunter syndrome, or mucopolysaccharidosis II (MPS II). When he
was just four-years-old, he was diagnosed with the disease.

Since the treatment is quite expensive, which is almost Rs 1 crore per year, I
am unable to start his treatment. He is surviving without treatment," the boy's
father said. He added that his son required enzyme replacement therapy (ERT) as
his son's body does not have that particular enzyme. If he gets the ERT
regularly, his son will be able to survive. Since the cost of treatment is quite
high, the father is unable to provide the required treatment for his son. The
LSDSS has pointed out that the families of the rare patients are going through a
tough time for the past three years (5 children have died already), as they
cannot afford the life-saving treatment for their children due to its high cost.
The families are hopeful that the government will take necessary steps
immediately to provide access to life-saving treatment."Fourteen months ago, at
the round table, health minister Rajendra Singh Rathore had announced to set up
a committee for LSD patients. He had also said that a nodal officer would be
deputed to undertake a number of welfare initiatives including making treatment
available under National Health Mission and drugs available under the free
medicine scheme for the patients. It has been 14 months now and these patients
are still waiting to hear from the government on implementing the initiatives,"
LSDSS mentioned in the letter to the CM.On February 25, families of rare disease
patients had met key genetic experts and health ministry officials to discuss
their plight and access to treatment on Stakeholders' Round Table Meeting (RTM)
for welfare of rare disease patients in Rajasthan. A rare disease is a life
threatening or chronically debilitating condition that affects a very small
number of people.According to a book - Rare diseases in paediatrics, written by
Dr Ashok Gupta, JK Lon superintendent, "It is estimated that more than 7,000
distinct rare diseases exist today, affecting patients in their physical
capabilities, mental abilities, behaviour and sensorial capacities."The names of
some of rare diseases are Gaucher Type I, Fabry's disease, Pompe disease, MPS-I
(Hurler disease), MPS-II (Hunter disease), MPS-VI (Maroteaux-Lamy syndrome
).Jaipur: Lysosomal Storage Disorders Support Society (LSDSS) has appealed to
chief minister Vasudhara Raje to show urgency for the treatment for patients
with rare disease. Five children with the disease have already died in the
recent past.LSDSS has submitted a letter of appeal with medical certificates of
the patients and other relevant documents to government officials including
health minister Rajendra Rathore urging them to take step for providing the
children suffering from lysosomal storage disorders (LSDs). Majority of the
children with LSD are unable to get the treatment as the yearly cost of
treatment is estimated to be Rs1crore. A patient requires treatment for
lifetime."My son is suffering from Hunter syndrome, or mucopolysaccharidosis II
(MPS II). When he was just four-year-old, he was diagnosed with the disease.
Since, the treatment is quite expensive, which is almost Rs1 crore per year, I
am unable to start his treatment. He is living without treatment," father of the
boy with the rare disease said on condition of anonymity. He said that his son
required enzyme replacement therapy (ERT) as his son's body does not have that
particular enzyme. If he gets the ERT regularly, his son would be able to
survive. Since, the cost of treatment is quite high, he is unable to provide him
the required treatment. The LSDSS has pointed out that the families of the rare
patients are going through tough time for the past three years (5 children have
died already), as they cannot afford to give lifesaving treatment for their
children due to their high cost. The families are hopeful that the government
will take necessary immediate step to provide access to life-saving
treatment."Fourteen months ago, at the roundtable, Health Minister, Rajendra
Singh Rathore, had announced to set up a committee for LSD patients and deputing
a nodal officer to undertake a number of welfare initiatives including making
treatment available under National Health Mission and drugs available under the
free medicine scheme for patients. It has been fourteen months and these
patients are still waiting to hear from government on implementing the
initiatives," LSDSS mentioned in the letter to the CM.On February 25, families
of rare disease patients had met key genetic experts and Health Ministry
officials to discuss their plight and access to treatment on Stakeholders'
Roundtable Meeting (RTM) for welfare of Rare Disease patients in Rajasthan. A
rare disease is a life threatening or chronically debilitating condition that
only affects a very small number of people in the population.Box: According to a
book- Rare diseases in paediatrics, written by Dr Ashok Gupta, JK Lon
superintendent, "It is estimated that more than 7,000 distinct rare diseases
exists today, affecting patients in their physical capabilities, mental
abilities, behaviour and sensorial capacities."The names of some of rare
diseases are Gaucher Type I, Fabry's disease, Pompe disease, MPS-I (Hurler
disease), MPS-II (Hunter disease), MPS-VI (Maroteaux-Lamy syndrome).

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              70 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                        Manawatu Standard (New Zealand)

                              March 1, 2013 Friday

Family battles for boy with rare syndrome

BYLINE: Lucy Townend

SECTION: NEWS; NATIONAL; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 590 words


AWARENESS Rare Disease Day is an awareness campaign that takes place on the last
day of February every year.

There are 7000 types of rare diseases and disorders.

50 per cent of the people affected by rare diseases are children.

30 per cent of children affected by a rare disease may not live to see their 5th
birthday.

95 per cent of rare diseases don't have a single approved drug treatment.

--------------------

Jack Peacock is one of two people in New Zealand who suffers from Hunter
syndrome - a life- threatening and debilitating genetic disease.

In his decade of living the 10-year- old has had open heart surgery twice,
double hip surgery, battled ear infections, swollen optic nerves, problems with
his respiratory tract, joint stiffness, limited mobility, extra fluid in his
head and carpal tunnel surgery.

Speaking to the Manawatu Standard on Rare Disease Day yesterday, his mother,
Kirsty Taylor, said Jack was an intelligent kid who loved history, the universe,
facts and figures, and computer games.

"He can't go outside and kick a ball, he's just physically not able to . . . but
he's a lively, cheeky boy and can get you wrapped around his finger pretty
quickly, he's a bit of ratbag in fact."

But recently Jack started talking about "going home".

"He knows he's not here for long."

In October, when he was in Starship children's hospital after undergoing open
heart surgery, he started talking about dying. "He was tired, he'd had enough
and he asked me what would happen if he died unexpectedly.

"I'd never really talked to him about the fact his disease was terminal, because
for a very long time there I believed, wholeheartedly, that getting him
treatment would give him the opportunity to live a longer life.

"That he'd get to do all those things that we get to do and he wouldn't miss out
on having a girlfriend, driving a car or reaching birthday milestones."

Jack started asking about picking his cemetery plot and where he was going to be
laid to rest, Ms Taylor said. "He wanted to know it was ready, so we bought some
land, went up there and he lay down in it and said to me, 'This is a good spot
mum, lie down with me', so I did.

"He's started "signing off" and asking his mum to tell family members he loved
them, and that his younger brother, Alex, could have his computer.

"It really did get to me and I went into a depressive state wondering how much
longer he was going to be with us, but once he chose his plot it all went away."

It wasn't death that he wanted, it was escaping the body he was trapped in, she
said.

"When I told him there wouldn't be any more pain when he died, his whole face
lit up."

But now he talks about becoming an adult, an archaeologist and travelling the
world, she said. "Jack's been on medication for four years now and without it he
wouldn't be here, but he's a lucky one to get the treatment he needs, because
there's so many people with rare diseases that don't."

Rare Disease Day was important because it built a sense of community and
camaraderie among sufferers and their families, she said.

"For so many [suffering] rare diseases on their own they're not even known
about, but as a collective [it's better] . . . people need to understand and
know there's people in Palmerston North that are suffering and need help."

Jack's family is holding a black-tie "School Prom at The Grand" fundraiser this
Saturday for Rare Disease Day.

--------------------

CAPTION:

"Ratbag": Whakarongo School's Jack Peacock is one of only two people in New
Zealand with Hunter syndrome.

Picture: ROBERT KITCHIN/FAIRFAX NZ

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2013 Fairfax New Zealand
                              All Rights Reserved


                              71 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                           Philippines Daily Inquirer

                            August 22, 2015 Saturday

Mother fights daughter's rare disease

LENGTH: 887  words


IN OCTOBER 2012, 41-year-old Joselyn Taruc finally learned that her 2-year-old
daughter Queen Zina is afflicted with Hurler Syndrome, a rare and progressive
genetic disorder that causes her to develop a large head, dark skin, coarse
facial features (bulging forehead, depressed nasal bridge, broad mouth, square
jaw), short neck, enlarged abdomen, clawed hands, crouched stance and to suffer
from vision impairment, hearing loss and stunted growth.

The outlook for children with Hurler Syndrome is grim: they suffer from organ
dysfunction particularly of the heart (valve problems and narrowed arteries),
bones (misshapen spine and joints), lungs (frequent infection, airway blockages,
sleep apnea) and in some cases of the brain (developmental abnormalities,
learning difficulties and intellectual disabilities).

Despite being just 5 years old, Queen Zina has been in and out of the hospital
for various ailments-recurrent fluid buildup in her head, abnormal heart murmur
(she suffers from mild mitral regurgitation), pneumonia and ear infections.

The reality that my youngest will also die early is difficult for me and I am
not going to get ready for my youngest child's death because I am just not ready
to accept that, yet. She has to keep on fighting for her health as I will keep
on fighting for access to treatment for her disease, said Taruc whose 6-year-old
first-born son died from complications of cerebral palsy in 2006.

Largely ignored

A rare disease like what Queen Zina has is largely ignored due to poor economic
potential and are thus said to be orphaned. It is not surprising for most
biomedical research companies to focus on developing treatments for common
diseases as this would maximize the possibility of them recouping research and
development costs.

As a result, the gap between common- and rare-diseases drugs eventually widened
to the point where few or no treatments were available for rare conditions.

Taruc said: In my conversations with doctors, I found that a bone-marrow or
cord-blood transplant is the only treatment at the moment that shows promise
against the effects of Hurler Syndrome. However, aside from being very
expensive, the procedure also carries a high risk of developing life-threatening
complications. Besides, it may not undo the damage the disease has already done.

Fortunate

She related that she was just fortunate that when she sought the assistance of
doctors at the Philippine Children's Medical Center and the Philippine Society
for Orphan Disorders, she was referred to the University of the
Philippines-National Institutes of Health's Institute of Human Genetics, which
in turn, helped Queen Zina include in Genzyme's International Charitable Access
program (Genzyme is one of the few companies that developed life-saving
therapies for ultra-rare diseases).

With the enzyme replacement therapy she is currently receiving every week, Taruc
said there is improvement in her daughter's swollen spleen and liver, joint
mobility, breathing, and sleep apnea.

The ERT infusion takes about 4 hours.

Taruc said: She really helped me realize what's important. We regularly visit
all her 10 specialists and despite my husband's meager pay as a truck driver, I
see to it that my baby gets treatment on time so I borrow money from friends or
seek financial assistance from charitable institutions.

Lacks enzyme

Hurler Syndrome occurs when the body lacks a particular enzyme that breaks down
glycosaminoglycans (GAGs), a type of sugar molecule utilized by our cells to
help build bones, cartilages, tendons, corneas of the eyes, skin and other types
of connective tissues. GAGs also help with many other cellular functions,
including growth control, organ development and signaling between cells.

Normally, GAGs are eventually transported to the cell's digestive system-called
lysosomes-wherein the enzymes inside break them down into their basic
components.

In children with Hurler Syndrome, the GAGs are not broken down completely and as
a result, accumulate in the cells. This damages the different tissues and organs
of the body.

When too many GAGs accumulate, organs and tissues become damaged or do not
function properly.

The ERT mimics the missing enzyme and during infusion, it stops the progressive
accumulation of GAGs, resulting in the delay of Hurler Syndrome's progression in
the organs most affected by this disease.

Taruc and the rest of parents with children suffering from rare disorders are
currently depending on a handful individuals and companies for various support.
For years several bills, which seek to establish a comprehensive and sustainable
health system for rare diseases, have remained pending before both houses of
Congress.

Hurler Syndrome is inherited, which means the disease is passed on by the
parents to their child. If both parents carry the defective gene related to this
condition, each of their children has a 25 percent chance of developing the
disease.

Persons with Hurler Syndrome do not make a substance called lysosomal
alpha-L-iduronidase. This type of enzyme helps break down long chains of sugar
molecules called glycosaminoglycans or GAGs. These molecules are found
throughout the body, often in mucus and in fluid around the joints.

Without the enzyme, GAGs build up and damage organs, including the heart.
Symptoms can range from mild to severe.

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 Philippines Daily Inquirer
                              All Rights Reserved


                              72 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                              Lancashire Telegraph

                            December 1, 2014 Monday

Rossendale parents call on NHS to provide key treatment

BYLINE: Chris Adams

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 401 words


THE parents of a Rossendale boy who battled a deadly syndrome for more than a
decade have urged people to sign a petition calling for the NHS to treat ultra-
rare diseases.

Elizabeth and Jason Heath, whose son Jack died last June after fighting MPS II
Hunter syndrome for 11 years, said the current scoring system for NHS treatment
was "biased".

MORE TOP STORIES:

Jack, of Cotman Close, Bacup, was told he was unlikely to reach the age of 10
when he was diagnosed in 2002, but lived until he was 13.

The MPS Society, which indirectly funded Enzyme Replacement Therapy for Jack, is
also backing the petition.

A spokeswoman for the charity said: "We want to reinstate the highly specialised
services and ultra-orphan drug appraisal process for children and adults with
ultra-rare diseases that the NHS dismantled on April 1, 2013.

"Through dialogue with Jeremy Hunt and patients' constituency MPs, we advised
NHS England that reorganisation would fail people in England with with ultra-
rare diseases and sadly how right we are."

Jack's illness left him deaf, dumb, incontinent, confined to a wheelchair and in
need of 24-hour care. More than 250 people turned up at the former Holy Trinity
CE Primary School, Stacksteads, and Tor View Community Special School,
Haslingden, pupil's funeral.

The petition, which currently has almost 6,700 signatures, reads: "We have
started a petition about the discriminatory process set by NHS England that
denies access to treatments for ultra-rare disease due to its biased scoring.

"Whilst new therapies are expensive for children and adults with ultra-orphan
diseases, the numbers affected in England are usually in the tens and never
total more than 500 affected individuals.

"These ultra-rare diseases affect many organs of the body and usually result in
death in childhood or early adulthood.

"Today, even though the European Medicines Agency gave marketing approval for an
Enzyme Replacement Therapy for children and young adults with Morquio's syndrome
in April 2014 - and the health departments in France, Germany, Austria, Italy
and even Turkey are paying for Morquio's sufferers to receive Enzyme Replacement
Therapy - 77 people in England are denied Enzyme Replacement Therapy and have to
be treated at home."

An NHS England spokesman refused to comment.

To sign, visit
you.38degrees.org.uk/petitions/nhs-england-s-scorecard-discriminates-against-tre
ating-ultra-rare-diseases

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2014 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              73 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                             April 4, 2017 Tuesday

Extraordinary lives These inspiring New Yorkers with rare diseases rise to the
challenges they confront every day

BYLINE: and Molly Shea

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 490 words


Nearly 1 in 10 Americans suffers from a rare disease or disorder, according to
the National Institutes of Health. Here, three New York families dealing with
disorders most people have never heard of share their stories.

Self-starters

When Donna Appell's daughter, Ashley, was diagnosed as an infant with
Hermansky-Pudlak Syndrome (HPS), she had trouble finding much information about
the genetic terminal disease. So she launched the nonprofit HPS Syndrome Network
in 1992, a support group for people and families dealing with the disease and
related disorders.

"When we got out of the hospital, I said, 'Where are the other families?'" says
Appell, who splits her time between Oyster Bay, LI, and Manhattan with her
husband and Ashley, now 30.

The disease, which can cause albinism, vision disorders, bleeding problems,
colitis and pulmonary fibrosis, affects an average of 1 in 500,000 to
100,000,000 people, but Appell says research can help many.

"When you study a rare disease, you actually benefit the [more] common ones,"
she says. "[By studying] HPS, you study vision disorders, Crohn's disease,
pulmonary fibrosis and more."

Still living her dream

In February 2016, Lucy Richardson stood up from her desk and felt a sharp pain
in her leg. Six months, dozens of doctors and many tests later, the
Australia-born UN consultant was given two possible diagnoses: hereditary
spastic paraplegia (HSP), estimated to affect 1 in 500,000 to 1 million
individuals worldwide, and primary lateral sclerosis (PLS), which affects an
unknown number of people. Both are rare neuromuscular disorders that cause
debilitating pain throughout the body. HSP may be genetic and is rarely fatal,
and PLS can be fatal, although doctors are unsure for now of how Richardson's
case will progress.

Now 30 and living with her boyfriend on the Upper East Side, Richardson uses a
wheelchair to get around and says she won't let her disorder get in the way of
living her life or continuing to work her dream job at the UN.

"I'm very lucky to be here in New York with access to medical care," she says.
"I'm in a lot of pain, but I'm still here."

Help from strangers

Faye Dilgen says social media has been an unexpected gift when it comes to
caring for her son, John Hudson. The 14-year-old was diagnosed as an infant with
epidermolysis bullosa (EB), a genetic connective-tissue disorder that results in
extremely fragile skin that blisters and tears. Their doctors at NYU Langone in
Manhattan told them there was no known cure for EB, which affects 1 in every
50,000 live births, and is fatal in some cases.

When the Staten Island family recently needed money to remodel their bathroom to
make John Hudson's baths less painful, they turned to the fundraising Web site
GoFundMe and received overwhelming support. They asked for $40,000 and ended up
receiving more than $100,000 in donations.

Dilgen says: "It took on a life of its own."

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: -Donna Appell (left) and her daughter, Ashley, who has Hermansky-Pudlak
Syndrome. [Edmund J Coppa]-Lucy Richardson. [Lucy Richardson]-Faye Dilgen and
John Hudson. [Faye Dilgen]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2017 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              74 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                             April 4, 2017 Tuesday

Extraordinary lives These inspiring New Yorkers with rare diseases rise to the
challenges they confront every day

BYLINE: and Molly Shea

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 490 words


Nearly 1 in 10 Americans suffers from a rare disease or disorder, according to
the National Institutes of Health. Here, three New York families dealing with
disorders most people have never heard of share their stories.

Self-starters

When Donna Appell's daughter, Ashley, was diagnosed as an infant with
Hermansky-Pudlak Syndrome (HPS), she had trouble finding much information about
the genetic terminal disease. So she launched the nonprofit HPS Syndrome Network
in 1992, a support group for people and families dealing with the disease and
related disorders.

"When we got out of the hospital, I said, 'Where are the other families?'" says
Appell, who splits her time between Oyster Bay, LI, and Manhattan with her
husband and Ashley, now 30.

The disease, which can cause albinism, vision disorders, bleeding problems,
colitis and pulmonary fibrosis, affects an average of 1 in 500,000 to
100,000,000 people, but Appell says research can help many.

"When you study a rare disease, you actually benefit the [more] common ones,"
she says. "[By studying] HPS, you study vision disorders, Crohn's disease,
pulmonary fibrosis and more."

Still living her dream

In February 2016, Lucy Richardson stood up from her desk and felt a sharp pain
in her leg. Six months, dozens of doctors and many tests later, the
Australia-born UN consultant was given two possible diagnoses: hereditary
spastic paraplegia (HSP), estimated to affect 1 in 500,000 to 1 million
individuals worldwide, and primary lateral sclerosis (PLS), which affects an
unknown number of people. Both are rare neuromuscular disorders that cause
debilitating pain throughout the body. HSP may be genetic and is rarely fatal,
and PLS can be fatal, although doctors are unsure for now of how Richardson's
case will progress.

Now 30 and living with her boyfriend on the Upper East Side, Richardson uses a
wheelchair to get around and says she won't let her disorder get in the way of
living her life or continuing to work her dream job at the UN.

"I'm very lucky to be here in New York with access to medical care," she says.
"I'm in a lot of pain, but I'm still here."

Help from strangers

Faye Dilgen says social media has been an unexpected gift when it comes to
caring for her son, John Hudson. The 14-year-old was diagnosed as an infant with
epidermolysis bullosa (EB), a genetic connective-tissue disorder that results in
extremely fragile skin that blisters and tears. Their doctors at NYU Langone in
Manhattan told them there was no known cure for EB, which affects 1 in every
50,000 live births, and is fatal in some cases.

When the Staten Island family recently needed money to remodel their bathroom to
make John Hudson's baths less painful, they turned to the fundraising Web site
GoFundMe and received overwhelming support. They asked for $40,000 and ended up
receiving more than $100,000 in donations.

Dilgen says: "It took on a life of its own."

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: -Donna Appell (left) and her daughter, Ashley, who has Hermansky-Pudlak
Syndrome. [Edmund J Coppa]-Lucy Richardson. [Lucy Richardson]-Faye Dilgen and
John Hudson. [Faye Dilgen]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2017 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              75 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            New Hamburg Independent

                           February 25, 2016 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Ontario needs better strategy to treat rare diseases, MPP Michael Harris says

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 623  words


Sometimes they think cancer would have been easier - at least then, they would
know what treatment to seek.

That's the mindset that emerges for some people who battle a rare disease, after
they discover that care or medicine needed to live a normal life - or just
survive - fall outside what Ontario can provide. People have paid large sums or
travelled elsewhere for medical service, said MPP Michael Harris last week, and
the province needs to do a better job dealing with these unique cases.

The Progressive Conservative member for Kitchener-Conestoga has spent nearly a
year campaigning on this issue. People with uncommon conditions like
Erdheim-Chester disease, congenital central hypoventilation syndrome or
Miller-Dieker syndrome often don't know what to do, he says - and the province's
medical system often doesn't know either.

To fix that, Harris has proposed a private member's motion that calls for a new
committee composed of politicians from all parties to spend time hearing from
doctors, patients, and drug companies. After that, they would create
recommendations for better funding and policies to treat rare diseases in
Ontario.

That motion is set for debate on March 3.

Harris was in Kitchener Feb. 19 to hear people with rare diseases share their
stories. About two dozen people came out for this final stop on the MPP's series
of roundtable meetings to drum up support and feedback across the province.
Previous visits included Windsor, Ottawa, Hamilton. Pickering, Sudbury,
Brockville and Toronto.

It's a sad topic, Harris said, but one that demands action.

"Until I was elected, I didn't really know anyone with a rare disease. But I sat
at Queen's Park watching people come through the door... begging the health
minister for a treatment for their loved ones," he said. "They feel left outside
the system."

The fact that these families so often need to see politicians for help "means
there's a system breakdown and we've got to do something."

Rare diseases may not be so rare. According to the Canadian Organization for
Rare Disease, one in 12 Canadians are affected (or impacted) by rare disorders.

And there are thousands of rare diseases and conditions, Harris said, but they
lead to similar experiences for people navigating a system that's oftennot ready
for them. Alpha-1 antitrypsin deficiency, for example, is a condition that can
cause lung disease and liver disease. Treatments aren't covered in Ontario and
can cost $2,000 a month, he said.

The problem is not just getting access to a rare drug, it's the fact that an
obscure condition is often missed or misdiagnosed because doctors don't know how
to recognize it.

Harris admits he isn't sure exactly what the government's role should be to help
people with rare conditions, but he's optimistic the committee he has proposed
can find improvements

"Ontario has always been seen as a leader...so let's lead the way," he said.
"I'm hopeful that if we put the proper resources into it... a lot of things will
come to light that we can do to assist them.

"We're not always talking about throwing money at a problem to fix it," the MPP
added. "We need support for families and caregivers [too]."

Harris said he expects the motion to pass; the NDP has indicated it would vote
in favour, and he said all politicians have been approached by people seeking
help for these problems.

"I'm not going to stop after the vote," he added

A motion passed by Queen's Park would provide an agreed intention for the
province's legislature, rather than a bill which creates a new law.

If the motion passes, it will be up to the Liberal majority government to
actually strike the proposed committee, Harris noted.

More information about Harris' campaign is available online at
treatraredisease.ca.

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              76 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            New Hamburg Independent

                           February 23, 2016 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Ontario needs better strategy to treat rare diseases, MP Michael Harris
campaigns

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 623  words


Sometimes they think cancer would have been easier - at least then, they would
know what treatment to seek.

That's the mindset that emerges for some people who battle a rare disease, after
they discover that care or medicine needed to live a normal life - or just
survive - fall outside what Ontario can provide. People have paid large sums or
travelled elsewhere for medical service, said MPP Michael Harris last week, and
the province needs to do a better job dealing with these unique cases.

The Progressive Conservative member for Kitchener-Conestoga has spent nearly a
year campaigning on this issue. People with uncommon conditions like
Erdheim-Chester disease, congenital central hypoventilation syndrome or
Miller-Dieker syndrome often don't know what to do, he says - and the province's
medical system often doesn't know either.

To fix that, Harris has proposed a private member's motion that calls for a new
committee composed of politicians from all parties to spend time hearing from
doctors, patients, and drug companies. After that, they would create
recommendations for better funding and policies to treat rare diseases in
Ontario.

That motion is set for debate on March 3.

Harris was in Kitchener Feb. 19 to hear people with rare diseases share their
stories. About two dozen people came out for this final stop on the MPP's series
of roundtable meetings to drum up support and feedback across the province.
Previous visits included Windsor, Ottawa, Hamilton. Pickering, Sudbury,
Brockville and Toronto.

It's a sad topic, Harris said, but one that demands action.

"Until I was elected, I didn't really know anyone with a rare disease. But I sat
at Queen's Park watching people come through the door... begging the health
minister for a treatment for their loved ones," he said. "They feel left outside
the system."

The fact that these families so often need to see politicians for help "means
there's a system breakdown and we've got to do something."

Rare diseases may not be so rare. According to the Canadian Organization for
Rare Disease, one in 12 Canadians are affected (or impacted) by rare disorders.

And there are thousands of rare diseases and conditions, Harris said, but they
lead to similar experiences for people navigating a system that's oftennot ready
for them. Alpha-1 antitrypsin deficiency, for example, is a condition that can
cause lung disease and liver disease. Treatments aren't covered in Ontario and
can cost $2,000 a month, he said.

The problem is not just getting access to a rare drug, it's the fact that an
obscure condition is often missed or misdiagnosed because doctors don't know how
to recognize it.

Harris admits he isn't sure exactly what the government's role should be to help
people with rare conditions, but he's optimistic the committee he has proposed
can find improvements

"Ontario has always been seen as a leader...so let's lead the way," he said.
"I'm hopeful that if we put the proper resources into it... a lot of things will
come to light that we can do to assist them.

"We're not always talking about throwing money at a problem to fix it," the MPP
added. "We need support for families and caregivers [too]."

Harris said he expects the motion to pass; the NDP has indicated it would vote
in favour, and he said all politicians have been approached by people seeking
help for these problems.

"I'm not going to stop after the vote," he added

A motion passed by Queen's Park would provide an agreed intention for the
province's legislature, rather than a bill which creates a new law.

If the motion passes, it will be up to the Liberal majority government to
actually strike the proposed committee, Harris noted.

More information about Harris' campaign is available online at
treatraredisease.ca.

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              77 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                          September 12, 2013 Thursday

Utah: NIH scientists pursue new therapies to improve rare disease drug
development

LENGTH: 807  words

DATELINE: Salt Lake City


National Institutes of Health, The State of Utah has issued the following news
release:

Four new pre-clinical drug development projects at the National Institutes of
Health will target a form of blindness and diseases characterized by cardiac
problems. The projects were selected for their potential to treat specific rare
diseases and to help scientists uncover new information that can be shared with
other researchers.

The studies will be funded through the Therapeutics for Rare and Neglected
Diseases (TRND) program at the NIH's National Center for Advancing Translational
Sciences (NCATS). This group of projects also marks the TRND program's first use
of stem cells as well as its first collaboration with a large pharmaceutical
company, Eli Lilly, to co-develop a treatment for a rare disease.

"TRND is grounded in partnerships with academic, government, pharmaceutical and
patient advocacy groups. Working in collaboration, scientists conduct
pre-clinical development of new drugs and then advance them to first-in-human
clinical trials," said NCATS Director Christopher P. Austin, M.D. "Like all
NCATS programs, TRND seeks to develop new technologies and more efficient
paradigms for translation, in the context of important unmet medical needs."

Two projects employ therapeutic approaches to developing a treatment for
retinitis pigmentosa, a severe form of hereditary blindness. A third project
focuses on a potential treatment for hypoparathyroidism, a hormone-deficiency
syndrome that can lead to cardiac problems and convulsions.

The remaining project aims to develop a possible therapeutic that targets a
cardiac disorder associated with LEOPARD syndrome, an extremely rare genetic
disease that affects many areas of the body. About 80 percent of patients with
LEOPARD syndrome have a cardiac disorder called hypertrophic cardiomyopathy,
which is a thickening of the heart muscle that forces the heart to work harder
to pump blood, which can lead to early death.

A rare disease is one that affects fewer than 200,000 Americans. NIH estimates
that, in total, there are more than 6,000 rare diseases. However, effective
pharmacologic treatments exist for only about 200 of these illnesses.

Private companies often do not pursue new therapies for rare diseases due to the
low anticipated return on investment. Through TRND, NCATS advances potential
treatments for rare and neglected tropical diseases to first-in-human trials, an
approach known as "de-risking." This strategy can make possible new drugs more
commercially viable and attractive to outside partners, who can invest in their
further development and additional clinical trials. The new projects are:
Long-acting parathyroid hormone analog for the treatment of hypoparathyroidism

Henry U. Bryant, Ph.D., distinguished research fellow
Lilly Research Laboratories, Eli Lilly and Company, Indianapolis
Use of rapamycin for the treatment of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy in patients
with LEOPARD syndrome

Maria I. Kontaridis, Ph.D., assistant professor of medicine
Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, Boston
Use of retinal progenitor cells for the treatment of retinitis pigmentosa

Henry J. Klassen, M.D., Ph.D., director, Stem Cell and Retinal Regeneration
Program
University of California, Irvine School of Medicine
Small molecule pharmacological chaperone for the treatment of retinitis
pigmentosa

William F. Brubaker, Ph.D., chief executive officer
Bikam Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Cambridge, Mass.

The project descriptions are available at
http://www.ncats.nih.gov/trnd-projects.html.

TRND partners do not receive grants. The collaborative project teams receive
in-kind support and gain access to TRND researchers with rare disease drug
development capabilities, expertise, and clinical and regulatory resources. Each
project has established data-driven milestones to track progress. TRND staff may
choose to discontinue projects that do not achieve milestones in the established
timeframe. This allows other more promising candidates to enter the program.

"We are particularly excited about this set of collaborative projects for its
potential to produce treatments for underserved patient populations," said John
C. McKew, Ph.D., acting director of NCATS Division of Pre-Clinical Innovation
and director of the TRND program.

A number of early projects fostered by TRND have reached the stage where
partners, such as pharmaceutical, biotechnology or disease groups, are being
sought to move the treatments out of TRND and in the next phases of clinical
development. Through the program in the last two years, TRND researchers and
collaborators have advanced four projects to human clinical trials, evaluating
treatments for sickle cell disease, chronic lymphocytic leukemia, hereditary
inclusion body myopathy and Niemann-Pick Type C.

For further information please visit: http://www.nih.gov/

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2013 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              78 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                             The Southern Reporter

                           October 17, 2012 Wednesday

Rare diseases place a collective burden on the health service

LENGTH: 414  words


It is estimated that 300,000 people in Scotland and 3.5million in the UK will be
affected by rare disease at some time in their lives.

Collectively, rare diseases are not rare and together they represent a
significant health burden to the NHS. Eighty per cent of rare disease is of
genetic origin.

The health service was set up in 1948 when little was known about genetic
disease, and in many instances the NHS is failing patients who wait sometimes
five to 20 years for diagnosis.

In my case it was necessary to take a trip to the States for diagnosis, then a
wait of four years for NHS-funded medication.

I am a carrier of Fragile X and am the first woman in the UK to be diagnosed
with FXTAS (Fragile X Associated Tremor Ataxic Syndrome). In my family there are
two children and one adult diagnosed with Fragile X Syndrome, also several
carriers in several generations of this genetically-inherited learning
disability disorder.

A reliable DNA blood test has been available since 1990. Since 2000 it has been
recognised that 48 per cent of carrier males - in 2004, 10/14 per cent of
carrier females - will go on to develop degenerative neurological symptoms
similar and sometimes referred to as "a Parkinson-like condition" called FXTAS.
How many medical professionals have ever heard of this condition?

Scotland has a leading research facility established two years ago at the
Patrick Wild Centre within Edinburgh University which conducts clinical trials
into Fragile X, autism and other neurological conditions.

I and my family have set up The Helen Maude Garfit Fund to raise awareness and
financial support for this worthwhile work.

The centre works with affected families. One third of children with Fragile X
also suffer from autism, another third have autism spectrum disorders, many may
be diagnosed with autism, but have never been tested for Fragile X.

Health care professionals and the general public need to be aware of the
difficulties for subsequent generations and the continuing burden to both health
and education services if this condition continues to go unrecognised.

Children with this condition need to get early diagnosis and early intervention
to enable them to have the best possible outcomes. By raising awareness it is
hoped that many families will be spared the added challenges of bringing up a
child or children suffering from learning disabilities.

More information can be accessed through the internet, just type in Fragile X.

Mrs A. M. Maude Brownlie

Gattonside

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SBSR


                       Copyright 2012 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved


                              79 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                       The Sun Herald (Sydney, Australia)

                              June 20, 1993 Sunday
                               Queensland Edition

US TESTS BRING NEW HOPE FOR DISEASE BOY

BYLINE: JANE SOUTHWARD

SECTION: NEWS AND FEATURES; Queensland; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 305 words


JAMIE Logan was eight weeks old when doctors told his parents he could develop a
grotesque and rare disease like the one portrayed in the movie The Elephant Man.

A dark brown mark had appeared on his forehead and doctors could not explain it.

When he turned one, the birthday celebrations were tainted as doctors told
Jamie's parents, from Noosa Heads, all they could do was wait to see if Jamie
developed lesions and tumours on his head and body.

Meantime, almost half of Jamie's face, including one eye, was covered with the
brown mark. Knowing blindness and deafness could result if the lesions developed
and put pressure on their son's brain, Carolyn and Wayne Logan launched a
fund-raising drive to take Jamie to Johns Hopkins University in Baltimore in the
US - the only hospital that offered them any hope.

Queenslanders contributed $14,000 to send the family, including older son Corey,
7, and Rebecca, 7 months, to the US. And US researchers have told the family
that Jamie, now 3, "almost certainly" will not develop McCune Albright Syndrome,
a rare disease with symptoms similar to the elephant man's disease.

One of the US doctors, Dr William Schwindinger, said if the tests had found
Jamie had the syndrome he would have led an awful life with multiple tumours
weakening his bones and causing fractures which would have made the boy
wheelchair bound.

Jamie underwent two weeks of tests in the US and is only one of seven children
the world renowned research centre has studied with the syndrome. The tests were
paid for by a Johns Hopkins research fund.

Dr Schwindinger said the syndrome was believed to be caused by a mutation in a
gene shortly after conception.

Now the family will return home this week and begin raising money to put a laser
machine in an Australian public hospital so their son can be treated nearer to
home.

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illus: RARE DISEASE FEAR: Carolyn Logan and son Jamie. Picture: MAURICE
MAHADY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 1993 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              80 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                             April 5, 2011 Tuesday

Rare diseases are the'orphans' of the medical world;
We know what the problem is, but somehow 'cost-effectiveness' rings hollow when
it's your child who is sick. Lisa Priest reports

BYLINE: LISA PRIEST

SECTION: NATIONAL NEWS; FOLIO: PRESCRIPTION FOR CHANGE / OUR TIME TO LEAD /
ELECTION 2011; Pg. A8

LENGTH: 1611 words


Stephen James suffers from symptoms that are as extreme as they are rare: food
cravings that compel him to take bolt cutters to the kitchen pantry that his
parents have locked, or even a screwdriver to a padlocked freezer.

His eating compulsion is due to Prader-Willi syndrome, which is caused by a gene
missing on part of chromosome 15. Morbid obesity is one of its biggest medical
challenges and many of those with the syndrome - at least 300 in Canada - have
diminished muscle tone and decreased mental capacity, with sex glands that
produce little or no hormones. Most will not be able to live independently.

There is also a financial vulnerability, especially in a country where there is
no federal policy or funding for these uncommon ailments. Orphan medicine -
treatment for a life-threatening or chronically debilitating rare condition -
cost the James's private health insurer $50,000 annually, while treatments for
other diseases can cost up to $1-million a year. It is a precarious place for
wealthy and modest families alike.

When Stephen's father lost his job as a financial adviser, he also lost his
benefits, which has left his son without a required growth hormone for six
months and counting. Since being off the medication, the 26-year-old has gained
10 pounds, suffered intensified food cravings and left his parents worried sick
about how to get a drug for him they cannot afford.

"It's a full-time job raising a child with Prader-Willi syndrome," said his
mother, Susan James of Brantford, Ont. "And Canada is so far behind other
countries."

A national orphan-drug policy has fallen between provincial and federal cracks,
leaving Canada as one of the few developed countries without a plan. The cost
might be a deterrent, but the number of Canadians with rare diseases is
relatively low. The drug bills consume about .07 per cent of all public money
spent on pharmaceuticals, according to Durhane Wong-Rieger, president of the
Canadian Organization for Rare Disorders. Compare that to the Netherlands at 2
per cent or France at 2.5 per cent.

Though the argument over rare diseases often comes down to money, the issue is
not necessarily defined by the estimated $82-million Canadians spend annually on
orphan drugs. Instead, it might be a question about how the country protects its
most vulnerable citizens.

"We're probably the worst of the developed countries," Ms. Wong-Rieger said.
"Even the little bit we've done is not very well implemented."

With no national plan, obtaining treatment is "hit and miss," she said. "We have
to fight for one patient at a time. We have no policy, no framework."

And yet other countries - Japan, Australia, the United States and the European
Union - have found ways to deal with orphan diseases. In the United Kingdom, a
licensed therapy and a diagnosis is usually enough to qualify patients for fully
funded drugs.

These countries have found ways to deal with problems that threaten small
numbers of people in devastating ways. Some fast-track drugs for rare diseases,
while others extend market exclusivity to pharmaceutical manufacturers or
provide tax incentives for drug companies to generate new treatments.

The core of the issue is the rarity of the disease: The fewer the number of the
affected, the less likely there will be a clinical trial study to prove a drug's
effectiveness. And most drug manufacturers aiming to generate blockbuster
products to treat large numbers of patients do not find orphan drugs especially
attractive.

Cost-effectiveness - one of the items that determines whether a drug is covered
- is also difficult, as conventional criteria don't work. The drugs are
exorbitantly expensive, some costing more than half-million dollars a year.

A key component of an orphan drug plan, say experts, would include a commitment
to evaluate patients through registries where clinical data is collected. That
way, the drug's effectiveness and side effects could be studied as they go
along.

With no national policy, the provinces are left to find their own way.

Of all the provinces, Alberta and Ontario are the furthest along; Alberta funds
treatments for rare diseases that in some cases, can run up to $1-million
annually.

Ontario is leading a national framework to develop consistent, evidence-based
approaches to evaluating drug therapies for rare diseases.

"These diseases are so rare that in a country our size, we really do all have to
be working together to put the best collective intelligence on the assessment,"
said Diane McArthur, executive officer of the Ontario Public Drug Programs.

In the case of Stephen James, who has Prader-Willi syndrome, his mother is
planning to put him through the necessary testing to see if he qualifies for the
growth hormone to be funded by the Ontario government.

"You expect to be settled at this age and not have these worries," said Ms.
James.

Even defining rare diseases is not agreed upon. The Canadian Organization for
Rare Disorders say it's 1 in 2,000; Alberta defines it as fewer than 1 in
50,000. Ontario's working definition of rare is 1 in 100,000 to 1 in 150,000.

In the case of Prader-Willi syndrome, it is estimated to afflict roughly 1 in
22,000 births, said Jean-Pierre Chanoine, division head of endocrinology and
diabetes at BC Children's Hospital.

These rare diseases which are often genetic can be so overwhelming, there seems
no hope. When treatments do exist, they are not magic bullets, but ways to halt
the disease progression or quell its symptoms.

Dr. Chanoine pointed out that doctors cannot fix a problem caused by a genetic
condition. "You cannot replace the gene or modify it to make the condition to
disappear," he said, adding that treatment often involves helping patients cope
with their condition.

The growth hormone helps children grow, increases muscle mass and controls
obesity, but can be extraordinarily expensive, often because it is required for
a lifetime.

Heather Beach estimates costs at about $15,000 a year for her son, Silas
Bumstead, who turns five in June. He receives the drug at no cost through a
pharmaceutical company's compassionate care program.

Her son has chosen to receive the drug while asleep, so every night, she sneaks
into his bedroom, where she grabs the fleshy part of his thigh, jabs it with a
needle full of growth hormone and then prays he doesn't wake screaming.

"We feel very lucky, but we feel it's very tenuous," Ms. Beach said in a
telephone interview from Vancouver. "They [the drug company] could at any time
decide to not cover us."

***

What is rare?

Orphan diseases are rare, and agreement on a definition among countries or even
provinces is equally unique. Here is the range of medical opinion on the numbers
of patients involved.

The Canadian Organization for Rare Disorders: 1 in 2,000

Alberta: fewer than one in 50,000 people or fewer than 50

Ontario: ranges from 1 in 100,000 to 1 in 150,000

United Kingdom: fewer than 5 in 10,000

United States: fewer than 5 in 10,000

Australia: fewer than 2,000

Japan: fewer than 50,000

Lisa Priest

***

THE U.K.

One system that seems to work

The United Kingdom is heralded for its comprehensive way of treating orphan
diseases, where it has a system of evaluating and funding drugs for rare
conditions.

"In most situations where there is a licensed therapy, most patients will
eventually get the drug once they have a confirmed diagnosis," said Alastair
Kent, director of Genetic Alliance UK, a national charity of patient
organizations supporting those affected by genetic disorders.

Prader-Willi syndrome is a good example: Patients have been obtaining growth
hormone for almost nine years since the National Institute for Health and
Clinical Excellence ruled in favour of it, saying it was a "clinically and
cost-effective way to treat children with growth hormone deficiency."

Compare that to Canada, where patients struggle to obtain the drug: They go
without the growth hormone, try to get it funded through their work health
plans, or apply to receive it at no cost under compassionate grounds from
pharmaceutical companies.

What is universal is that few can afford to pay for the growth hormone out of
pocket, where it can cost up to $50,000 for an adolescent.

In the U.K., there are different routes to funding rare diseases, defined there
as affecting fewer than 5 out of 10,000 people.

But no matter the route, the drugs are government funded with no co-payments to
patients. Recommendations to fund these licensed medicines are made after being
carefully studied and having agreed upon clinical protocols created by doctors
who treat the rare disease or condition.

One downside is finding that physician who can provide a definitive diagnosis
and get treatment rolling. "They may have to wait a long time to get a
diagnosis," said Mr. Kent.

Lisa Priest

***

Most common orphans

Guillain-Barre syndrome (50 in 100,000)

Melanoma, familial (50 in 100,000)

Autism, genetic types (45 in 100,000)

Scleroderma (40 in 100,000)

Focal dystonia (30 in 100,000)

Marfan syndrome (30 in 100,000)

Non-Hodgkin malignant lymphoma (30 in 100,000)

Retinitis pigmentosa (28 in 100,000)

Gelineau disease (26 in 100,000)

Myeloma, multiple (25 in 100,000)

Alpha-1 antitrypsin deficiency (25 in 100,000)

Diaphragmatic hernia, congenital (25 in 100,000)

Juvenile arthritis, idiopathic (25 in 100,000)

Neurofibromatosis type 1 (25 in 100,000)

Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease (25 in 100,000)

Polycystic kidney disease, recessive type (23 in 100,000)

Fragile X syndrome (14 in 100,000)

Primary biliary cirrhosis (14 in 100,000)

Tuberous sclerosis (9 in 100,000)

Source: Orpha.net

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2011 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              81 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                      DNA

                              May 9, 2017 Tuesday

Registry formed for rare diseases

BYLINE: Neetu Chandra Sharma

LENGTH: 357  words


Indian Council of Medical Research hopes it will help determine the accurate
number of patients

New Delhi: India now finally has a rare disease registry. To get a better
estimate of the number of patients suffering from rare diseases, the Indian
Council of Medical Research (ICMR) set up the registry on April 28.

The registry will ascertain the number of patients suffering from rare diseases,
and formulate policies on resources, funding and treatment.

"A disease or a disorder is defined as rare in India when it affects less than
one in 2,500 individuals. The registry intends to cover the spectrum of rare and
ultra-rare disorders. However, initially it will only gather data on conditions
for which an established treatment process is available," said Dr Soumya
Swaminathan, Director General, ICMR, and Secretary, Department of Health
Research, Union Health Ministry.

"This registry will initially rely on data from hospitals and physicians. The
data will also help with research and clinical trials," said Dr Swaminathan.

According to ICMR officials, the registry will help determine the "precise
number of patients, age of onset of symptoms, age of diagnosis, the course of
the disease, etc."

ICMR has also contacted patient groups managed by organisations such as Indian
RETT Syndrome Foundation, Indian Society for Primary Immune Deficiency, Society
for Hemophilia Care India, Organisation of Rare Disorders India, Lysosomal
Storage Disorder Support Society, Metabolic Errors and Rare Disease Organisation
of India, Hemophilia Federation of India, and The Fragile X Society India.

"Awareness about rare diseases is considerably low in India. More awareness is
needed among the medical fraternity, especially pediatricians and gynecologists,
and among parents and couples planning to have a baby. This can help detect
Fragile X syndrome and other rare disorders among children early on," said
Shalini Kedia, Founding Chairperson, The Fragile X Society.

More than 70 million people in India suffer from various rare diseases that
manifest in childhood, and remain with them throughout their lives.

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2017 Diligent Media Corporation Ltd., DNA (Daily News & Analysis),
                           distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              82 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                       Tablelands Advertiser (Australia)

                            February 10, 2017 Friday
                               Tablelands Edition

Pint-sized star to shine

BYLINE: AMBASSADOR Andrea Falvo

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 329  words


A FIVE-year-old Mareeba boy with a flair for performance and a personality
beyond his years, has demonstrated the power of determination to not let his
rare disease slow him down.

Liam Chapman, who turns five today, has been diagnosed with Prader-Willi
Syndrome.

In his short life has had six surgeries and has to have a daily injection of
growth hormone.

The vibrant youngster has been chosen as the ambassador of this year's Rare
Disease Day Fun Run and Walk.

The annual walk, ride and run is held to support locals affected by rare disease
and to commemorate International Rare Disease Day.

It will be held on the Cairns Esplanade from 8.30am, on February 26. Liam's
mother, Sonia said the annual event had become an important part of her son's
motivation to learn to walk.

"Liam's really looking forward to it and he tells everyone 'it's very important
and everyone needs to come'," she said.

"It's about getting people there raising awareness and raising funds so that
they can support research." Mrs Chapman said over the past three years, Liam had
walked in the event with his friend, Ivy Barsley, a seven-year-old Mareeba girl
who has rare chromosome syndrome called Partial Trisomy 10 Partial Monosomy 4.

"They've both come a long way," she said.

"The first year he was in the pram the whole way, the second year they were
taking turns with the walking frame and last year he walked around most of the
way.

"On top of the fact that walking if a big effort for him, he can't regulate his
temperature properly so he gets really hot, really quickly." Mrs Chapman
encouraged Tablelands residents to take part in this year's Rare Disease Day
event.

Funds raised will go towards research and support for locals with rare disease.
Mrs Chapman said Liam receives direct funding from FNQ Cerebral Palsy support
group as a result of the funds raised, for his hydrotherapy/learn to swim and
equine therapy. To register in the three or five kilometre run, walk, or ride,
visit rarefriends.org

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: Tablelands Advertiser


                   Copyright 2017 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              83 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                               dailyrecord.co.uk

                        March 1, 2015 Sunday 9:14 AM GMT

Record View: NHS must deliver the best care for people with rare diseases;
LIVING with a rare disease is an incredibly difficult ordeal. The NHS must make
sure that sufferers have access to the services and support they need, says
RECORD VIEW.

BYLINE: By Record View

SECTION: NEWS,HEALTH

LENGTH: 467 words


ILLNESS strikes most people at some stage in their lives.

Usually, whatever is wrong can be quickly diagnosed and treated with tried and
tested medical expertise.

In most cases, people recover and continue to live full and active lives.

But, for some people, being struck with a rare disease can lead to
misunderstanding, misdiagnosis and very painful medical treatment.

Living with a rare disease is an incredibly difficult ordeal.

About 300,000 people in Scotland are diagnosed with rare diseases and almost a
third of sufferers will die before their fifth birthday - so an ordeal can
become a tragedy, too.

Having a rare disease can be a struggle emotionally, financially and socially as
well as clinically.

The lack of scientific knowledge and quality information on diseases often
results in a delay in diagnosis.

The need for proper health care poses challenges in terms of access to
treatment.

Patients often find that their families have to help with funding - adding
another burden to an already difficult situation.

Today, we profile several rare conditions and talk to some of the Scots who
suffer from them.

They are faced with making life-changing decisions on life-threatening
conditions, of which little is understood.

These are people like eight-year-old Ava Jolliffe, who has the extremely rare
Brown-Vialetto Van Laere syndrome.

There have only been 73 known cases since it was first discovered in 1894 and
worldwide, only 30 children currently have it.

It is a life-limiting genetic disease which causes damage to nerves at the base
of the brain.

It can cause deterioration in much the same way as motor neurone disease.

Brother and sister Alasdair and Chloe Taylor both suffer from Fragile X syndrome
- a genetic condition which causes a range of developmental problems, including
learning disabilities and cognitive impairment.

Sufferers cannot live their lives unsupported and will always rely on their
parents and professional help.

The fact that there are often no existing effective cures for these conditions
and many others adds to the high level of pain and anguish endured by patients
and their families.

That's why the Daily Record are lending our support to Rare Diseases Day - to
raise awareness, join the campaign to make sure that sufferers have access to
effective services and to ensure that patients and their families and carers are
listened to and understood.

There is never going to be enough money to meet all the demands placed on the
NHS but they can deliver the best care possible for every individual, whatever
their circumstances and however challenging their condition.

More care, more understanding and more clinical and scientific research can make
a big difference to those who have to carry the burden of having rare and
sometimes incurable diseases.

Quick Quiz: News 27/2/15

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDAR


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              84 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            The Star (South Africa)

                           February 28, 2017 Tuesday
                                   E1 Edition

World's spotlight falls on rare diseases;
The lack of awareness is big challenge

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1025 words


ONE IN 10 people across the globe is affected by a rare condition. Today the
world, including South Africa, will mark the 10th annual Rare Disease Day.

According to statistics released by Rare Diseases South Africa (RDSA), about 50%
of people affected by rare diseases are children.

Taking this further, about 30% will not live past their fifth birthday, with
rare diseases also being responsible for 35% of deaths in the first year of
life.

It's estimated that in South Africa, roughly 3.6â[#x20ac]...million people are
affected by rare diseases, while worldwide the number of sufferers is estimated
at 350â[#x20ac]...million.

Public support for ongoing research is crucial to saving lives.

As part of a worldwide campaign to raise awareness for patients, families and
carers who are affected by rare diseases, Rare Disease Day takes place on the
last day of February every year.

This year's global theme is "Research", a topic that is close to the hearts of
everyone who seeks to bring hope to people who are living with a rare condition.

There are about 7â[#x20ac]...000 rare diseases. The most common in South Africa
include the auto-immune disorder Guillain-BarrÃ© syndrome; connective tissue
diseases such as Marfan syndrome and scleroderma; as well as neurofibromatosis,
which is a genetic disorder that causes tumours to form on nerve tissue; and
Turner syndrome, a chromosomal condition that affects development in females.

"Rare diseases are often difficult to diagnose and treat, but through research
they provide a window into the way our bodies work," says Professor Michele
Ramsay, the director and research chair at the Sydney Brenner Institute for
Molecular Bioscience, University of the Witwatersrand.

"They may uncover important clues that can be translated into better health for
many. In Africa, rare diseases have not been widely studied and there are
numerous people who remain undiagnosed.

"Research can help develop new methods for faster and more accurate diagnosis.
This, in turn, may lead us to better treatment and management of the condition,"
she says.

"It is important for families affected by rare diseases to know they are not
alone."

Ramsay emphasises that somewhere there is someone with a similar disorder and,
through support groups and social media, they can be found.

"Affected families become part of a community who can share experiences and
advice, and are supported by dedicated healthcare workers.

"Researchers benefit from studying groups of people with similar rare diseases
because they can put together the different pieces of a puzzle to understand the
mechanisms that lead to the disorder.

"South Africa and the continent need more support for research to improve the
health outcomes of its people," Ramsay explains.

Rare diseases are individually rare and diverse, and research needs to be
international to ensure that experts, researchers and clinicians are connected,
that clinical trials are multinational, and that patients can benefit from the
pooling of resources across borders.

As part of a public awareness campaign, RDSA hosted a Denim Walk on Sunday at
the Walter Sisulu Botanical Gardens in Roodepoort.

This wheelchair-friendly event gave people the opportunity to get up and
physically do something for those suffering with rare conditions. It also gave
patients suffering from rare diseases the opportunity to meet and interact with
one another.

RDSA helps patients to access life-saving treatment and supportive care for
improved quality of life.

RDSA focuses on educating the public about these medical conditions. The
organisation also supports initiatives to help educate parents on symptoms to
look out for, and of the need to take their children to see a doctor when they
don't meet certain developmental milestones.

"The main objective of Rare Disease Day, and the Denim Walk, is to raise
awareness among the public and decision-makers about rare diseases and their
impact on patients' lives," says Kelly du Plessis, the chief executive of RDSA.

Du Plessis adds that Rare Disease Day has taken place since 2008, and events are
now held in more than 80 countries.

"The campaign also targets policymakers, public authorities, industry
representatives, researchers, health professionals and anyone who has a genuine
interest in rare diseases.

"While we realise that many of these conditions are years away from having
targeted treatments, it is never too late to make our patients feel as though
their lives matter," she stresses.

According to Ramsay, about 80% of rare diseases are genetic and are often
chronic and life-threatening.

"This is why RDSA works in partnership with Genetic Alliance South Africa
(GA-SA), an organisation that focuses on rare and common disorders with a
genetic basis.

"GA-SA unites patient support groups, healthcare professionals and other
stakeholders relevant to the care and prevention of congenital disorders.
Together we aim to make a difference to awareness of rare diseases in South
Africa," she says.

Rare diseases are characterised by a broad diversity of disorders and symptoms
that vary not only from disease to disease, but also from patient to patient.
Relatively common symptoms can hide underlying rare diseases, leading to
misdiagnosis and delaying treatment.

"Among the greatest challenges for parents and children living with rare
diseases isâ[#x20ac]¨the lack of awareness and understanding from those around
them, difficulty in obtaining an accurate diagnosis, the feeling of being
isolated, and the financial toll that illness takes on families," explains Du
Plessis.

"The fact that there are often no existing effective cures adds to the high
level of pain and suffering endured by patients and their families.

"These patients' quality of life is affected by the lackâ[#x20ac]¨or loss of
autonomy due toâ[#x20ac]¨the chronic, progressive, degenerative and frequently
life-threatening aspects of their disease, which are essentially disabling," she
adds.

"We urge people to support those living with rare diseases by volunteering at
our events, donating to our projects, swimming, cycling or running for rare
diseases, and helping us to create greater awareness by educating those around
you," Du Plessis says.

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SW


                Copyright 2017 Independent Newspapers Pty (Ltd)
                              All Rights Reserved


                              85 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            Herald Express (Torquay)

                           February 28, 2013 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Charity founder dedicates international accolade to her children

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 385 words


INSPIRATIONAL Torbay charity Alström Syndrome UK has won an international
accolade to mark its pioneering work in Europe. The Paignton-based charity was
set up in a front room in Southfield Avenue by a mum who lost both her children
to the rare disease.

Kay Parkinson received the award at a special gala dinner in Brussels and
dedicated it to her children Matthew and Charlotte. Alström Syndrome is a very
rare inherited condition, which affects the body's metabolism with particular
impact on all major organs including the heart, lungs, kidneys and liver.

The heart becomes weakened and enlarged and often leads to premature death.
Kidney failure may also occur.

During childhood, patients suffer deteriorating eyesight, often leading to
blindness. Hearing loss and Type 2 diabetes are also common. Charity and founder
and chief executive Kay said: "Children now diagnosed will have increased life
expectancy and their quality of life will be improved dramatically. "We learned
from what happened to mine and try to make sure that same horror story isn't
replicated time and time again. For my children, it really was a horror story.

"It doesn't make me angry, it just makes me sad that people with very rare
diseases have been forgotten in the system and still are.

"Rare Diseases Day is held in Britain this week to draw attention to the fact
that one in 17 people are affected by a rare disease - that's more than are
affected by cancer cumulatively, but because each individual disease is rare,
they do not get the publicity."

Now thanks to the Parkinson's charity, children all over Europe are being
diagnosed and treated earlier, saving many lives.

Kay said: "This is a great honour. It also strengthens our resolve to keep on
fighting to gain more recognition for rare diseases in Europe and around the
world."

The award for patient care was given by EURORDIS, the European Organisation for
Rare Diseases, a non-governmental alliance of patient organisations and
individuals dedicated to improving the quality of life for people living with
rare diseases in Europe.

The award was presented on February 26 at the second Eurordis Black Pearl Gala
Dinner. Kay has also now been instrumental in setting up Alström Europe and has
been given the honour of being the first president.

Thirteen countries are now signed up.

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: AWARD: Kay Parkinson with Avril Daly, vice chairman of EURORDIS. Inset:
Parents John and Kay Parkinson with Matthew and Charlotte

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: HET


                         Copyright 2013 Herald Express
                              All Rights Reserved


                              86 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                       March 3, 2012 Saturday 6:30 AM EST

NPS Pharmaceuticals Observes Rare Disease Day 2012

LENGTH: 955  words


New Delhi, March 3 -- NPS Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (NASDAQ: NPSP), a specialty
pharmaceutical company developing orphan therapeutics for rare gastrointestinal
and endocrine disorders, is joining the National Organization for Rare Disorders
(NORD) and other organizations around the world today to observe World Rare
Disease Day on February 29, 2012. This observance spotlights the nearly 30
million people in the United States and millions more worldwide who are living
with a rare disorder, many of whom have difficulty getting the right care
because of a lack of education about these conditions.

"Rare Disease Day reminds us that there are millions of people who are waiting
for treatments for their rare disorders," said Francois Nader, M.D., president
and chief executive officer of NPS Pharmaceuticals. "As a company dedicated to
developing treatments for orphan gastrointestinal and endocrine disorders, NPS
salutes the researchers, patients, advocates, and healthcare providers who are
working tirelessly to make a meaningful difference in the lives of those
affected by rare disorders."

In the U.S., any disease affecting fewer than 200,000 Americans is considered
rare. According to the National Institutes of Health (NIH), there are
approximately 7,000 such diseases affecting nearly 30 million Americans. While
nearly one in 10 Americans lives with a rare disease, only about 200 of the
diseases classified as rare have FDA-approved treatments.

"Everyone knows someone with a rare disease but many don't appreciate the
support these patients need," said Peter L. Saltonstall, president and CEO of
NORD. "We have been celebrating Rare Disease Day for five years, and in that
time it has become a truly global movement. With the help of partners such as
NPS Pharmaceuticals, we can empower people on nearly every continent to ensure
that patients living with rare diseases are heard."

About Rare Disease Day

Launched in Europe five years ago, World Rare Disease Day was recognized last
year in 60 countries, each of which has a national sponsor. NORD is the sponsor
in the U.S.

On Rare Disease Day 2012, activities in the U.S. will include a "Handprints
Across America" campaign to create a gallery of photos on the Rare Disease Day
website; educational materials for classroom teachers; and a nationwide blitz of
patient photos, stories and videos to increase awareness of specific rare
diseases and the challenges of living with a rare disease. In addition, several
special events are planned, including a scientific symposium at the National
Institutes of Health (NIH) and a Rare Disease Patient Advocacy Day in
conjunction with the Food and Drug Administration (FDA).

In the U.S., the coalition supporting Rare Disease Day includes patient
organizations and advocacy groups, medical professionals and associations,
government agencies, researchers, and companies developing treatments for rare
diseases. More than 500 patient organizations, government entities, research
institutions, and companies developing treatments have signed up as Rare Disease
Day Partners on the national website hosted by NORD (www.rarediseaseday.us).

About Short Bowel Syndrome

Short bowel syndrome, or SBS, is a highly disabling condition that can lead to
serious life-threatening complications and impair a patient's quality-of-life.
SBS typically arises after extensive resection of the bowel due to Crohn's
disease, ischemia or other conditions. SBS is associated with intestinal failure
and the inability to absorb sufficient nutrients and/or fluids through the
gastrointestinal tract. Patients with SBS are highly prone to malnutrition,
diarrhea, dehydration, and an inability to maintain weight due to the reduced
intestinal capacity to absorb macronutrients, water, and electrolytes. As a
result, many patients require the chronic use of parenteral nutrition (PN) and
intravenous (IV) fluids to supplement their nutritional needs and stabilize
their hydration. PN/IV fluids bypass the digestive tract and are delivered
directly into the bloodstream through a central venous catheter. Although PN/IV
can meet basic nutrition and fluid requirements, it does not improve the body's
ability to absorb nutrients.

The long-term use of PN/IV fluids is associated with shortened life span and
life-threatening complications such as blood clots and liver damage. The
development of PN-associated liver disease predisposes patients to an increased
incidence of sepsis, increased mortality rates, and the potential to develop
irreversible liver damage. Patients on parenteral support often experience a
poor quality of life with difficulty sleeping, frequent urination, and loss of
independence.

There are an estimated 10,000 to 15,000 SBS patients in the U.S. who are
dependent on parenteral nutrition and intravenous fluids.

About Hypoparathyroidism

Hypoparathyroidism is a rare disorder in which the body produces insufficient
levels of parathyroid hormone, the principal regulator of calcium and
phosphorus. When the body has too little parathyroid hormone, blood calcium
levels drop and phosphorus levels increase, which can cause muscular and
neurological symptoms, as well as bone impairments. There is no approved hormone
replacement for hypoparathyroidism. It is one of the few remaining hormone
deficiency syndromes in which replacement therapy using the native hormone is
not clinically available. Hypoparathyroidism is currently managed with large
doses of calcium supplementation and active vitamin D therapy to raise the
calcium levels in the blood and reduce the severity of symptoms. Over time,
calcium may build up in the body and result in serious health risks, including
calcifications in the kidneys, heart or brain.

copyright contify.com

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2012 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              87 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          The Cairns Post (Australia)

                            February 17, 2014 Monday
                                1 - MAIN Edition

Reaching out for a rare disease

BYLINE: Caitlin Drysdale caitlin.drysdale@news.com.au

SECTION: Pg. 3

LENGTH: 185  words


SIX-year-old Molly Cross is a happy little girl with a very rare disease, so
rare in fact that only one in 15,000 people have it.

Angelman Syndrome is a neuro-genetic disorder which has only recently entered
the public view, with the second ever International Angelman day taking place on
Saturday.

Molly's mum Meagan Cross is the head of the Australian Angelman charity and on
the board of the US equivalent.

With statistics showing that more people in the Far North must have Angleman
Syndrome, she is keen to reach out to others in need.

``I talk to people all around the world about Angeleman, but I don't know all
the people in Cairns,'' she said.

``There's lots of help out there if you need it so I want people to get in
contact.''

Molly started Year 1 this year, which Mrs Cross said has been a ``different and
exciting time for her''.

Next weekend will be the sixth fun run for International Rare Disease Day to be
held on the Cairns Esplanade.

The three or five kilometre course can be done as a walk or run, with proceeds
going to rare disease awareness and research.

For more information visit mollysvoice.org

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CCP


                   Copyright 2014 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              88 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                              European Union News

                             April 14, 2017 Friday

Register of Commission documents:on the Commission's approval of Germany's
revised plan to introduce a road toll Document date: 2017-03-08 P8_B(2017)0180
Motions for resolutions/decisions

LENGTH: 313 words

DATELINE: New York



Brussels: Public Register European Parliament has issued the following document:

RE\1119630EN.docx PE598.532v01-00
 EN United in diversity EN
 European Parliament
 2014-2019
 Plenary sitting
 B8-0181/2017
 1.3.2017
 MOTION FOR A RESOLUTION
 pursuant to Rule 133 of the Rules of Procedure
 on children with Pediatric Autoimmune Neuropsychiatric Disorders Associated
with Streptococcal Infections (PANDAS) syndrome
 Piernicola Pedicini
 PE598.532v01-00 2/2 RE\1119630EN.docx
 EN
 B8-0181/2017
 Motion for a European Parliament resolution on children with Pediatric
Autoimmune Neuropsychiatric Disorders Associated with Streptococcal Infections
(PANDAS) syndrome
 The European Parliament,
 - having regard to Rule 133 of its Rules of Procedure,
 A. whereas PANDAS syndrome is a syndrome of viral origin not yet recognised as
a rare disease; whereas it affects one in 2 000 children aged between 3 years
old and puberty, and its symptoms include severe obsessions, compulsions and/or
tics as well as psychotic behaviour in 8 % of cases;


 B. whereas PANDAS syndrome is similar to rheumatic fever and Tourette syndrome,
with which it shares symptoms and treatment;
 C. whereas diagnosis is hindered by a lack of knowledge about PANDAS syndrome
among the medical community, which can lead to incorrect diagnosis and/or
overdue diagnosis;
 1. Calls on the Commission and the Member States to give PANDAS syndrome the
status of 'recognised rare disease';
 2. Calls on the Commission and the Member States to launch a nation- and
Europe-wide awareness-raising campaign on PANDAS syndrome;
 3. Calls on the Commission and the Member States to promote research into the
treatment of these types of illness by increasing funding for researchers who
investigate these kind of pathologies every day.
In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              89 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                     The News-Item (Shamokin, Pennsylvania)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             August 15, 2011 Monday

Rare disease nearly kills West Cameron Twp. man

BYLINE: Mark Gilger Jr., The News-Item, Shamokin, Pa.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 979 words


Aug. 15--WEST CAMERON TOWNSHIP- It has been six years since John Hornberger, 56,
of West Cameron Township, experienced unimaginable pain and nearly died from a
disease that most medical professionals have never heard of before:
Stevens-Johnson Syndrome. Today, Hornberger looks at the scars on his body with
his partially damaged eyesight, and is determined to raise enough awareness
about the rare disease to help others avoid the suffering he felt.

"It's only rare if you don't have it," said Hornberger. "I remember saying that
if I could do anything to prevent this from happening to anyone, I wanted to be
involved."

Stevens-Johnson Syndrome is an adverse drug reaction that causes painful
blistering of the skin.

If left untreated, the skin literally melts off one's body. A person's eyesight
is also threatened by the disease that causes severe conjunctivis, iritis,
palpebral edema, conjunctival and corneal blisters and erosions, and corneal
perforation.

According the foundation's website, sjsupport.org, adverse drug reactions kill
nearly 100,000 people every year, but less than 1 percent are reported to the
Food and Drug Administration.

The disease can be triggered by ingredients found in simple over-the-counter
medications. Hornerberger's reaction was caused by Allopurinol, a medication he
took for kidney stones.

Not poison ivy

In September 2005, John Hornberger was clearing land for his new home in West
Cameron when he started to develop a rash. Thinking it was poison ivy, he
ignored it for several days until he felt sick and his sister insisted he see a
doctor. A foreign doctor, who was on duty at Shamokin Area Community Hospital
emergency room, said the rash looked like a disease he had seen in his home
country, Stevens-Johnson Syndrome.

Unable to be treated at the Shamokin facility, Hornberger was transported to
Geisinger Medical Center in Danville while his sister, Ellen Reed, researched
the disease online and found the Stevens-Johnson Syndrome Foundation.

"If it wasn't for Ellen, I wouldn't be here," he said. "I owe her so much."

Reed said the doctors didn't pay much attention to what she told them about the
disease and transported Hornberger by Life Flight to the burn center at the
Lehigh Valley Hospital when Geisinger staff was unable to treat him.

"That's what the problem is," said Hornberger. "Even the doctors are unaware
about the disease and don't know how to treat it. Had I known, I could have been
treated in enough time and had no symptoms."

During the flight, Hornberger went into shock and after being revived, slipped
into a coma for six weeks. He spent about two months in the burn center. About
95 percent of his skin melted off, the lining of his lungs were burned, his
throat fused shut and the corneas of his eyes were burned. Doctors informed his
family twice that he was going to die.

"It's just so draining mentally, physically, emotionally and spiritually. It was
horrible," said Hornberger. "There was such a horrible smell. It smelled like
death."

Doctors were eventually able to save Hornberger's skin, but the scars of the
disease are evident all over his body. Hornberger also underwent two operations
to open up his throat.

"I couldn't talk or walk," he said. "It was frustrating for a 50-year-old to not
be able to communicate."

The doctors also told him that he would eventually be blind.

"Most people who have the disease end up blind and deaf," said Hornberger. "I
said, 'I don't think so; I'm going to see my grandson.'"

After 2 1/2 months of rehabilitation, Hornberger returned home, retaining a
portion of his sight. He can see objects very close to him, but the edges of his
sight are blurry.

"It's like I'm looking through a milk bottle," he said.

Raising awareness

Hornberger is convinced that he would not be alive today if it weren't for the
support of his family, his faith and the Stevens-Johnson Syndrome Foundation
that provided him with information about the rare disease.

As soon as he could, he called Jean McCawley, founder of the Stevens-Johnson
Foundation, to tell her that if it had not been for her foundation providing
information about the disease, he would not be around to tell his story.

"We have to raise awareness," he said. "People have to know what it is and how
to treat it and possibly save a life just by knowing what to do. It's not
pretty, but people need to be aware that it can be caused by something as simple
as taking Tylenol."

Medical professionals still do not know what causes the disease and there is
currently no way to tell who is more likely to get it.

"It doesn't matter who it affects, kids to adults," said Hornberger. "People are
taking more and more medications today and we are seeing it more and more."

One of the goals of the organization is to encourage research of the disease.
Hornberger said that stem cell research may reveal more about the rare disease
and there are other promising treatments for the disease that are pending
approval for the market.

Hornberger is now one of 26 facilitators for the foundation throughout the
world. He writes letters to local lawmakers every year, asking them to make
August Stevens-Johnson Syndrome awareness month.

He also organizes a soup supper each year at St. Peter's Church, Herndon, to
raise money for the organization. Hornberger said the supper raised close to
$900 dollars last year and is set for Nov. 12 this year.

"There's a saying that the organization likes to use: 'Find out about
Stevens-Johnson Syndrome before it finds someone you love'," said Hornberger.
"That saying is so true."

To see more of The News-Item or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.newsitem.com. Copyright (c) 2011, The News-Item, Shamokin, Pa.
Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For more information
about the content services offered by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services
(MCT), visit www.mctinfoservices.com.

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20110815-IZ-Rare-disease-nearly-kills-West-Cameron-Twp-man-0815-20110815

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IZ


                          Copyright 2011 The News-Item


                              90 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                       The Oklahoman (Oklahoma City, OK)

                              April 6, 2012 Friday
                                  City Edition

BABY'S PARENTS FACE RARE DISEASE, DECISION FOR LIFE ;
HEALTH BOY MAY HAVE TO HAVE HIS LEG AMPUTATED

BYLINE: JACLYN COSGROVE, Staff Writer

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 658 words


Some day, 3-month-old Brantley Jacobs will be old enough to understand the hard
decisions his parents had to make.

Before Brantley was even born, a doctor asked the Jacobses whether they wanted
to keep their baby.

"What we saw in the ultrasound was a 21-week-old baby that could think and
breathe - that had a bad leg, and I'm not going to abort a child for a bad leg,"
said David Jacobs, Brantley's father.

Now, the Jacobs, who live in Blanchard, are faced with a more difficult decision
- whether Brantley's leg should be amputated.

Doctors believe Brantley has a rare disease known as Klippel-Trenaunay syndrome.
Children with cases as severe as Brantley's are even rarer than the disease he
has.

Brantley's right leg is disfigured,  the skin rough, without toes formed at the
end. His skin is also discolored on other portions of his body.

Klippel-Trenaunay syndrome is a rare congenital disease, according to the U.S.
National Library of Medicine. Its symptoms include swollen blood vessels that
cause skin discoloration, varicose veins, bleeding from the rectum and blood in
the urine.

A disease is considered rare when it affects fewer than 200,000 people in the
U.S. There are more than 6,800 known rare diseases that affect about 30 million
people in the U.S., according to the National Institutes of Health.

People with Klippel-Trenaunay might have excessive growth of bones and soft
tissue.

As is the case with Brantley, the overgrowth of bones and soft tissues usually
begins in infancy and is most often limited to one leg, according to the
National Institutes of Health.

There is no cure and no known cause for Klippel-Trenaunay. The syndrome is
estimated to affect at least one in 100,000 people worldwide, according to U.S.
National Library of Medicine.

Before the Jacobses make the decision on whether to amputate at least part of
Brantley's leg, they will travel to Children's Hospital Boston on April 13.

A rough life so far

No one knew what was wrong with Brantley before he was born. During an
ultrasound, the Jacobses could see clumps of something floating around Brantley
in the womb.

This turned out to be dried blood. When Brantley was born eight weeks early in
December, he was bleeding because of a quarter-sized hole in his buttocks.
Doctors had to stitch up the hole and start a blood transfusion within two hours
of his birth.

In the first 12 weeks of his life, Brantley received 14 blood transfusions and
seven plasma infusions.

At birth, he weighed 4 pounds 3 ounces, a pound of which was his leg.

His leg was tender and would burst open and bleed because of the pressure inside
it from the extra fluid. All of the leg bones are present inside Brantley's leg,
but the extra fluid in his leg has weakened the bones to the point that he
probably could not use them.

The family was at an Oklahoma City hospital for eight weeks. They were then
transferred to Arkansas Children's Hospital. When Brantley arrived by plane in
Arkansas, doctors found - along with complications from Klippel-Trenaunay - that
he had not only E. coli but also meningitis. He recovered from both diseases,
and he and his parents have been home for a few weeks.

Currently, the prognosis is for doctors at Arkansas Children's Hospital to
amputate at least a portion of his leg in June, unless doctors in Boston say
otherwise.

At this point, Haleigh and David Jacobs want to do what's best for their baby.

If doctors amputate his leg at the knee, there's a chance he would still be able
to walk with a prosthetic.

"If there's a chance that we can have him walking and running around, we sure
want to do it," David Jacobs said.

Haleigh Jacobs has taken hundreds of photos with her cellphone and is keeping
everything, from the ultrasound pictures to the emails the hospitals have sent
her. When Brantley is old enough, his parents will hand over all the
information.

"So that way, he'll know" about the hard decisions the family had to make, she
said.


LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo 1: David Jacobs takes his son, Brantley, out of a car seat at his
family's home in Blanchard. Doctors believe the 3-month-old has
Klippel-Trenaunay syndrome, a rare congenital disease. PHOTOS BY SARAH PHIPPS,
THE OKLAHOMAN
Photo 2: Brantley Jacobs lies in a swing. Brantley's right leg is disfigured,
the skin rough, without toes formed at the end. He also has skin discoloration
on other portions of his body.
Photo 3: David Jacobs watches his son, Brantley, in a swing at their home in
Blanchard. Doctors believe Brantley has Klippel-Trenaunay syndrome. PHOTO BY
SARAH PHIPPS, THE OKLAHOMAN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2012 The Oklahoman, All Rights Reserved


                              91 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                   February 27, 1988, Saturday, City Edition

Woman with dry eyes gets firm to test drug for use in U.S.

BYLINE: NORMA WAGNER

SECTION: CITY TIMES AND INDEPENDENT; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 530 words

DATELINE: CRYSTAL RIVER



CRYSTAL RIVER - Betsy Latiff's hard work has paid off.

     A Crystal River resident, Ms. Latiff recently persuaded a German    firm to
conduct tests that could lead to availability in the United    States of a
medicine she needs to keep her eyes and mouth from drying    up.

     Ms. Latiff and thousands of others worldwide have a rare disease    called
Sjogren's Syndrome (pronounced Sho-grens), which diminishes the    production of
bodily fluids, such as tears and saliva. People afflicted    with the disease
need daily doses of a medicine called Bromhexine to    lead normal lives.

     But the medicine is not manufactured or sold in the United States.

     Ms. Latiff, 37, has traveled to Europe yearly to get a 12 months'    supply
of the medicine, sold over the counter there as a cold medicine.

     Since being diagnosed with the rare disease two years ago, Latiff    has
been on a quest to make the drug available in the United States.

     Because she cannot produce tears, Ms. Latiff's eyes have dried. Her
corneas have filled with ulcers and ripped. The disease can cause mouth
ulcers, tooth decay, bladder and yeast infections and vaginal dryness.

 It also can spread to organs and muscles inside the body.

     The malady is so rare it has not attracted enough attention to    generate
the financing necessary to find a cure. Nor has Sjogren's    Syndrome affected
enough people in the United States to make it    attractive to manufacture the
drug here.

     The tests German pharmaceutical company Boehringer-Ingelhiem will
conduct are required by the Food and Drug Administration before the    drug can
be marketed in the United States. Ms. Latiff is responsible    for the company's
testing of the drug for the American market, company    officials said last
week.

     "It's a real cause for celebration," said Elaine Harris,    president of
the Sjogren's Syndrome Foundation, headquartered in Great    Neck, N.Y.
"We would not be at this point without (Ms. Latiff)."

     The organization has about 27,000 members worldwide. Now Ms. Latiff    is a
consultant on the disease for the state and will be putting    together a
pamphlet for Florida doctors' offices so others may    recognize their symptoms
early.

     Ms. Latiff - who was in Washington, D.C., this week and could not    be
reached for comment - will be the national Sjogrens delegate at the
conference on rare diseases in April. She also is working toward the    first
American conference to focus exclusively on Sjogren's Syndrome.

     The syndrome - named after a Swedish physician who discovered it in    1933
- is a disease that causes the body's immune system to react    against itself.

     Why people develop the symptom still is unknown, but it is found    most
often in 35- to 60-year-old women. Although the symptoms can be    very painful,
the disease is rarely fatal, said Dr. Michael Rozboril of    Gainesville.



LOAD-DATE: November 10, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: CITY TIMES AND INDEPENDENT

                            Times Publishing Company


                              92 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                             The New Zealand Herald

                            February 29, 2016 Monday

Born with the cry of a cat

SECTION: ENTERTAINMENT; General

LENGTH: 487 words


Heard of cri du chat?

Neither had Jesse Petersen, until seven years ago.

Just after her daughter Vayla was born, Ms Petersen, 25, was told her precious
new arrival had the syndrome, sometimes called "cry of the cat".

Sufferers have a chromosome missing and display similar characteristics to
people with the more common Down syndrome.

It affects about 1 in 35,000 to 1 in 50,000 people and is one of about 7000 rare
diseases spotlighted by the New Zealand Organisation for Rare Disorders" annual
awareness day.

Vayla goes to primary school now on Waiheke Island, but her mother and
stepfather still need to take a hands-on role with her.

Vayla"s speech is largely limited to "mama" and her beloved "ball". She needs to
be fed through a tube and at school she has a teacher aide at her side.

The "cry of the cat" name comes from the distinctive noise people with cri du
chat, or 5p- syndrome, sometimes make.

Ms Petersen said Vayla"s cat-like cry had subsided as she got older but she had
it at birth.

"Now I know her cry was so different. I was very young when I had her so it was
just a beautiful sound to me then.

"It was quite shocking being told that your daughter has a disorder you"ve never
heard about."

Communication is instead through sound and sign language, both the official New
Zealand version and a simplified one called makaton.

"Mostly I understand her through sounds and picture and her body language," Ms
Petersen said.

"Not many people can understand her. It"s just family and close friends. She
tried very hard to get things across."

Ms Petersen said Rare Diseases Day yesterday was about raising awareness of the
many little known and understood conditions people have.

A lot of medical professionals weren"t even familiar with cri du chat and Ms
Petersen still remembers the old-fashioned language used when it was broken to
her that her daughter would have "severe mental retardation".

Vayla has another rare condition, bronchiectasis, which damages the lungs"
ability to clear mucus and raises the risk of infection.

"Just seeing your child really sick is just really hard," Ms Petersen said.

She works part-time as a teacher aide and, since becoming a mother, has
completed a Bachelor of Disability Studies.

All of that has seen her become somewhat of a walking educator.

"What"s good about having Rare Diseases Day or any awareness day is people get
to understand that there are so many people out there that have differences."

NZ Organisation for Rare Disorders chief executive Letitia O"Dwyer said a rare
disorder or disease was something that 1 in 2000 or more people had and most
were genetic.

Uncommon disorders

bull If everyone with a rare disease (350 million) lived in one country, it
would be the world"s third-most populous.

bull About half of people with rare diseases or disorders are children.

bull Thirty per cent of children with a rare condition won"t live to see their
fifth birthday.

Source: www.nzord.org.nz

LOAD-DATE: February 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2016 The New Zealand Herald
                              All Rights Reserved


                              93 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                           The Philadelphia Inquirer

                             July 14, 2012 Saturday
                              Correction Appended
                                 CITY-D Edition

A Philadelphia meeting talks treatment for a rare disease

BYLINE: By Allyn Gaestel; Inquirer Staff Writer

SECTION: PHILADELPHIA; P-com News Local; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 802 words


Five years ago, a passionate mother-turned-activist chatted up her tablemate at
a conference for people with genetic diseases. Little did Vicki McCarrell, now
of central Missouri, know that she was pitching new research to Francis Collins,
director of the groundbreaking Human Genome Project and the future head of the
National Institutes of Health.

On Friday, at McCarrell's invitation, Collins was at the Sheraton Philadelphia
serenading a room full of people affected by Moebius syndrome. The rare genetic
condition causes facial paralysis and the inability to turn eyes left or right
in their sockets.

"It's your dedication that's our inspiration," sang the NIH chief, while
strumming a guitar decorated with a double-helix decal.

The song moved this often-overlooked group to stand and sing along. This
weekend, 114 people with Moebius and 300 others came here to support one
another, hear a brilliant researcher croon, and learn about innovation.

The presence of Collins, 62, at the Moebius Syndrome Conference points to a
growing national interest in rare diseases and the potential breakthroughs they
can bring not only for those conditions but for more common ones too.

"Although they are individually rare," Collins said, "if you put them all
together . . . about 26 million people in the U.S. are affected by rare
diseases." Research on rare conditions accounts for more than 11 percent of the
NIH budget, with $3.5 billion set aside. But there are around 7,000 rare
diseases.

That means that for all the billions spent and guitars strummed, little progress
has come on Moebius, which was first described in the 1880s.

Collins is looking at Moebius in his own lab, inspired by the experience of
McCarrell's son Sean. But his lab has analyzed the data of only four Moebius
patients, and there is still no known cause, much less a treatment.

The condition is present at birth. The facial paralysis and lack of lateral
vision movement are linked to the sixth and seventh cranial nerves, but
researchers do not know why those nerves fail to develop. Collins hopes to
pinpoint the genetic abnormality or environmental factors that hinder their
development.

Collins called research into rare diseases the "entryway into understanding
profoundly important issues and principles that will have implications far
beyond that individual rare disease."

He pointed to his own work on progeria, an exceedingly rare condition that
causes children to age rapidly and die of strokes and heart attacks as
teenagers. His research linked a mutant protein, progerin, to the breakdown of
the bodies of non-affected elderly individuals.

Yet Collins called the current medical research climate "paradoxical." While new
tools and technologies are allowing "exponential" advances and discoveries, he
said, "support for biomedical research through NIH has never been under as much
stress as it is now."

The NIH budget has hovered around $30 billion since 2003. Collins said that with
inflation, that freeze has meant a 20 percent decline in the NIH's purchasing
power. "It is troubling indeed that we cannot say with complete confidence that
we are doing everything we could," he said.

The main innovations for Moebius have been cosmetic, such as a transplant from a
thigh muscle to the cheek that can allow those with facial paralysis to smile.
People with Moebius must learn swallowing, blinking, and eating through therapy.

Abby Simmons, 17, from Elk Township, N.J. opted not to undergo the surgery
because "it's not a real smile," she said. People with the surgery don't smile
reflexively; they have to do so intentionally.

When Simmons was born, her condition shocked her family. During her pregnancy,
"they tested me for everything, and everything was fine," recalled her mother,
Mary Anne. "But with mother's intuition, I knew something was wrong." There are
no prenatal tests for the disorder.

It took the family three years to get a diagnosis. "All of the doctors had never
even heard of it," Simmons said. Moebius is estimated to affect one of every two
million to 20 million people.

The isolating experience and lack of answers are part of what inspired McCarrell
to start the Moebius Syndrome Foundation, the group behind this weekend's
conference. When her son was found to have Moebius in 1990, she had to scour the
country for leads to other people with Moebius.

Now the group has more than 2,000 members.

Grassroots campaigns for rare diseases have grown with modern connectivity. "The
Internet has increased the ability of patients to join together," said Stephen
Groft, director of the Office of Rare Diseases Research at NIH. "The patient
groups can be the catalyst for individual research projects and responsible for
developing a research agenda."

Allyn Gaestel can be reached at AGaestel@philly.com.


LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: July 15, 2012



CORRECTION: A caption with the photo of Abby Simmons on Saturday incorrectly
characterized cosmetic surgery as a treatment for Moebius syndrome, a rare
genetic disease. The surgery is to partially correct cosmetic manifestations of
Moebius. No medical treatment exists for the condition.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 Philadelphia Newspapers, LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              94 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                              May 9, 2017 Tuesday

Rare Sjogren's Syndrome stumps Gandhi hospital doctors

BYLINE: Amrita Didyala

SECTION: HYDERABAD

LENGTH: 382 words


HYDERABAD: Nearly 12 percent of the 670 patients checked during an awareness
programme at the state-run Gandhi hospital were found to have symptoms of
Sjogren's Syndrome, a rare disease which was unheard of in the city. The disease
causes extreme dryness of eyes and mouth with patients needing to sip water or
liquids to be able to talk for even five minutes. The disease is classified into
two types- rheumatoid Sjogrens syndrome (less common) and primary Sjogren's
Syndrome (rare). Four patients suffering from the primary type were found during
the awareness drives conducted last month, but what is more alarming is that
most of the patients suffering from the symptoms are often misdiagnosed,
sometimes mistreated and almost always rounded off to psychiatrists."Awareness
about this rare disease is low even in the medical fraternity that the diagnosis
becomes the most difficult part.

The prevalence of this syndrome is four in 1 lakh population," said Dr Sirisha
Goud, member Sjogren's Syndrome Foundation and Society of Hospital Medicine,
USA, who was part of the awareness drive at Gandhi hospital.Apart from dryness
of mouth, redness of eyes, a constant sensation of having foreign particles in
the eyes, joint pains (in case of rheumatoid Sjogrens) and extreme fatigue ar
the other symptoms. The syndrome affects multiple organs in the body leading to
vision loss, seizures and even stroke, if remained undetected for long. The
disease affects the entire immune system and cannot be cured but can be
controlled with medicines, doctors said.Due to lack of awareness, patients
suffering from either type are mostly put on psychiatric medicines say experts.
"With diagnosis being difficult and the need to rule out all other tissue
diseases, by the time patients are referred to a rheumatologist, they are
already on psychiatric medicines. These medicines only worsen their dryness
problem. Since the symptoms of the disease are very vague, in many cases they
are mistaken for either Vitamin D or Vitamin B 12 deficiency or psychiatric
illness," explains Dr Arindam Nandy Roy, senior consultant rheumatologist,
Yashoda Hospital, Secunderabad.Rheumatologists working for nearly two decades
have confirmed seeing just 15 to 16 cases of the primary type.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              95 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                 Republican & Herald (Pottsville, Pennsylvania)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                              May 20, 2012 Sunday

BRIEF: Fundraisers planned to help man with rare disease

BYLINE: Thomas Leskin, Republican & Herald, Pottsville, Pa.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 219 words


May 20--Fundraisers are being planned to help a local man diagnosed with
Guillain-Barre syndrome in 2011.

According to a letter from Janie Phillips, her brother-in-law, David Phillips,
was a 41-year-old family man who was working and healthy, then in a week's time,
was paralyzed and on a ventilator.

On Dec. 19, 2011, David was diagnosed with Guillain-Barre syndrome, a disorder
in which a person's immune system attacks their nervous system.

An uncommon disease, it only affects one or two out of every 100,000 people.

David is currently at Broad Mountain Manor Nursing Home, Frackville.

To help with his expenses, family and friends are planning some fundraising
events.

The first will be a family fun night from 5 to 8 p.m. Thursday at Friendly's,
7340 Route 61 North, Pottsville.

The family will receive 10 percent of all sales and there will also be a bake
sale and raffle baskets.

Although no other dates have been set, a chicken barbecue dinner and a 2-on-2
basketball tournament, both in Frackville, are also being planned.

To make a donation to volunteer for any of the events, contact Janie Phillips at
570-573-0359 or Bob Phillips at 570-527-2429.

___ (c)2012 the Republican & Herald (Pottsville, Pa.) Visit the Republican &
Herald (Pottsville, Pa.) at republicanherald.com Distributed by MCT Information
Services

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20120520-RN-BRF-Fundraisers-planned-to-help-man-with-rare-disease
-0520-20120520

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: RN


                       Copyright 2012 Republican & Herald


                              96 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                      Trend News Agency, Baku, Azerbaijan

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             March 1, 2012 Thursday

BRIEF: Georgian First Lady hosts Brussels conference on rare diseases

BYLINE: N. Kirtzkhalia, Trend News Agency, Baku, Azerbaijan

SECTION: INTERNATIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 183 words


March 01--TBILISI, Georgia -- A conference and charity dinner dedicated to the
international day of rare diseases that was marked on February 29 were held in
Brussels at the initiative of EURORDIS chaired by EU President Herman Van Rompuy
and under the patronage of the Georgian First Lady Sandra Roelofs.

The money received from the dinner will be spent on patients with rare diseases
and to further research in this area.

Two years ago Sandra Roelofs formed an alliance to help patients with rare
diseases such as haemophilia, Down syndrome, thalassemia, phenylketonuria,
cystic fibrosis, autism and others within the SOCO fund.

The alliance of SOCO funds aims to unite and strengthen the organisations and
groups operating in this area in Georgia.

In early March, Mrs Roelofs plans to meet with representatives of the European
health bodies including the Academy of Paediatrics in Brussels.

Do you have any feedback? Contact our journalist at agency@trend.az

___ (c)2012 Trend News Agency (Baku, Azerbaijan) Visit Trend News Agency (Baku,
Azerbaijan) at en.trend.az Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20120301-1AZ-BRF-Georgian-First-Lady-hosts-Brussels-conference-on-
rare-diseases-0301-20120301

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1AZ


                                 Copyright 2012


                              97 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                           November 8, 2014 Saturday
                                Ontario Edition

HEALTH;
At 4, big Max has already made his mark;
Path to diagnosis is one for the textbooks, and should help parents of children
born with Weaver syndrome and other rare diseases

BYLINE: ANDRÉ PICARD

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 849 words


Max Jones is a big boy. At age four, he already weighs 75 pounds, and is as tall
as an average nine-year-old.

"He's a linebacker - a very cute one," his mother, Allison Jones, says with a
chuckle.

But a football career is not in the cards for Max. He has a rare disease that
has caused developmental delays and mobility issues, among other challenges.

But how he came to have a diagnosis - Weaver syndrome - will likely earn Max a
place in medical textbooks and the lore of genomics.

Max was born at Lions Gate Hospital in North Vancouver six weeks premature, and
spent his first five weeks of life in the neo-natal intensive care unit because
of problems feeding and breathing.

Then came repeated bouts of near-fatal pneumonia, seizures and the realization
that the boy had polymicrogyria, a condition in which the folds on the surface
of the brain are unusually small, causing developmental problems.

He had many other symptoms, but no diagnosis. Thus began the search for the
cause. "It's an odyssey that parents of children with rare diseases know all too
well," said Clay Jones, Max's dad.

Genetic disorders are individually rare but collectively common. All told, about
500,000 children in Canada have rare disorders that cause birth defects,
intellectual disabilities, difficulties with growth, or organ failure, often in
odd combinations.

In Canada, children are screened at birth for about two dozen rare but treatable
disorders (the number and type varies by province) but most genes that cause
rare diseases have not been identified. Diagnosis is done by a process of
elimination, based on a constellation of symptoms.

It was clear that Max, given his size, had an overgrowth syndrome. His parents,
in addition to being caregivers, became disease detectives, scouring medical
literature for clues.

"I never thought words like polymicrogyria would roll so easily off my tongue
but, by necessity, you become an expert," Ms. Jones said. "Max's condition is so
rare that we often know more than his doctors." Max's parents became convinced
he had Weaver syndrome, a condition first reported in 1974, and so rare that
only 40 cases are found in medical literature.

But doctors were not sure. Max had some, but not all, of the signs - rapid
growth, development delay, macrocephaly (an unusually large head), retrognathia
(a very small chin) and advanced bone age.

One of few experts on Weaver syndrome was based in Vancouver, and he was a key
player in an initiative called FORGE (Finding Of Rare Disease Genes) Canada, a
consortium that is using advances in genomic technology to identify rare
childhood genetic disorders. More than 200 are under investigation.

In 2012, William Gibson, a senior clinician-scientist at B.C. Children's
Hospital, and his team sequenced the entire genome of members of three families
with a child suspected of having Weaver syndrome (including the Joneses) and, by
comparing them, identified a mutation in a gene called EZH2 as the cause. The
study was published in The American Journal of Human Genetics.

Max had that rare mutation.

The discovery means doctors now have a test for patients who show the symptoms
of the disorder.

For Max's parents, it was a relief, even though naming his condition does not
change anything.

"Having a firm diagnosis doesn't make a difference in Max's care. But it
provides us with closure in a way," said Ms. Jones. "Just as importantly, it
means other families won't have to go through what we did."

Dr. Gibson said that after years working with families whose children have rare
conditions, he knows a definite, DNA-based diagnosis matters.

"Imagine having a fundamental question about a loved one in your mind for many
years. It haunts you," he said. "Families often feel a tremendous sense of
relief when we can finally answer the question." Having a diagnosis can also
make children eligible for educational opportunities and subsidies. Families of
children with disabilities often need to modify their homes and get
wheelchair-friendly vehicles and specialized medical equipment.

This is not a big issue for the Jones family because, as a lawyer and a
trademark agent, they are financially comfortable, and Max will soon make the
transition from daycare to kindergarten.

The genetic discovery also opens the door to research and, on Sunday, the
first-ever symposium on Weaver syndrome will be held in Vancouver. Given the
controversy over patenting genes in Canada, Dr. Gibson stressed that the EZH2
gene will not be patented and testing will be available to anyone who needs it.

"Let me put it this way: We didn't discover this gene so people could not be
tested."

The diagnosis raises further concern for the Jones family, because children with
Weaver syndrome have a much higher risk of developing cancers of the white blood
cells such as leukemia and lymphoma.

Still, his parents have their eyes fixed on the future. "We don't spend a lot of
time dwelling on 'why?' or 'what if?' " Ms. Jones said.

Her husband nods in agreement and adds: "When we first brought Max home, we
said: 'Thank God he's our kid because we're up to the challenge.' "

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2014 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              98 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Courier

                                 March 18, 2015

Support for Sanfilippo Syndrome sufferer

BYLINE: NICOLE CAIRNS

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 299  words


PURPLE may not be used in Ballarat Clarendon College's uniform, but students and
teachers donned a splash of the colour to raise money for Sanfilippo Syndrome on
Wednesday.

It is one of many ways the school will raise money for research into the rare
disease, which has attacked teacher Mark Robson's five-year-old daughter Skye.

On Monday there was a bake sale, Tuesday a sausage sizzle, Wednesday a touch of
purple and nail panting, Thursday a staff versus students' soccer match and on
Friday prizes from the raffle will be drawn and funds tallied.

School head of community service Jenny Tischler said the school supported things
close to home and the community, and students had pushed for something to be
done relating to the disease.

Skye's life expectancy is between 12 and 20 years, with the degenerative fatal
disease in its initial stages. Later it will go into a hyperactive phase, before
a breakdown phase. The final funds count will be on Friday, but Ms Tischler
estimated hundreds of dollars had already been raised.

She said the college had chosen  a touch of purple as purple was the colour used
for rare diseases.

'Rare Disease Day was celebrated on February 28, which was a Saturday ' which
didn't suit us at school, so we decided to do something now,' she said.

Ms Tischler said the main aim of the week was to raise awareness for Sanfilippo
syndrome and hoped the whole school would know and understand something about it
by the end of the week. The Robson family has set up a fundraising campaign,
Hope for Skye, to help fund gene therapy that could potentially extend Skye's
life.

Mr Robson said they were blown away from the level of support all week.

'Hopefully, this will help find a cure for Skye and help others with the rare
disease.'

nicole.cairns@fairfaxmedia.com.au

LOAD-DATE: October 02, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2015 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              99 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                The Irish Times

                              July 8, 2008 Tuesday

A lack of knowledge shared

BYLINE: RONAN McGREEVY

SECTION: HEALTH; Your Health; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 902 words


The lack of a support system for those with rare diseases needs to be remedied

FINDING OUT that a child not only has a disorder, but a a rare one at that, can
compound the grief and anger of parents and their sense of bewilderment.

It took nine years for Eithne Agar to find out about her son Robert's condition
and only then it was by chance. Listening to The Gerry Ryan Showone morning, she
heard a mother speak about her child. "I said to myself, 'hold on, this is
Robert'," she says.

The woman had organised a conference where a genetist and a world-expert from
Birmingham, Trevor Cole, were speaking.

Though a paediatrician suggested Robert had Sotos syndrome when he was born, he
was nine before seeing a specialist who also suggested the syndrome. But it took
another four years before the diagnosis was confirmed.

According to the medical textbooks, Sotos syndrome is more commonly called
cerebral gigantism because of the distinctive shape of the head of those who get
it.

It is a disorder characterised by excessive physical growth during the first two
to three years of life and by mild mental retardation, delayed development and
speech impairments. The range and severity of the conditions are such, however,
that it be can permanently debilitating, or those who have it can grow up to
lead a normal life.

Thankfully, for Eithne and her son, who is now 20, things have worked out well.
Robert is now an accomplished tenor and completed his Leaving Certificate with
distinctions in several subjects.

It took many years for Eithne, who is an educationalist from Wexford town, to
find out what was wrong with her son. He was born with the same size head as a
one-year-old and did not speak or walk until he was five. Initially, doctors
thought he had hydrocephalus. Other diseases such as cerebral palsy were almost
mentioned.

"This would be a situation that any parent could find themselves in. A
paediatrician visited Robert at the time and he mentioned Sotos syndrome. I
heard the words, and they meant nothing and it got lost. It went into the
ether," Eithne recalls.

"He was diagnosedfor everything else. Doctors could find nothing wrong, but
Robert didn't walk or talk for five years. They can't tell you that he will ever
walk or talk. He did not go through the same developmental process."

Her experiences have caused her to endorse a proposal by Rehab Ireland for an
all-Ireland centre of excellence for rare diseases, something, she says, that
would "eliminate this cloud of unknowing and this nightmarish situation that
people find themselves in".

The proposal has arisen out of a study done by Rehab into the problems for
sufferers and their relatives and also GPs who have trouble accessing
information on diseases which they might only encounter once in their
professional lives.

The report highlights the need for a centralised information service to minimise
the risk of families who experience rare disorders accessing worst-case
scenarios, inaccurate and out-of-date information and feeling overwhelmed as a
result.

Rehab Care's director of policy and co-ordination, Sarah Jane Dillon, says rare
diseases are by definition not common, but taken together, it estimates that
about 365,000 people in Ireland, or more than 5 per cent of the total population
of the island, have one of the 7,000 rare diseases currently identified by the
medical profession.

She said that the nature of the diseases in question means there is frequently
an information vacuum for parents and GPs, and there is no local support group
for those who are looking for help with diseases which can often have a
devastating effect on families.

According to Rehab research, three-quarters of GPs have difficulty accessing
information about rare diseases, and often resort to the internet, the same tool
used by virtually every family nowadays trying to find out more information.

Because of Ireland's relatively small population, it is often not possible to
find a quorum of people to form a support group, but a centre of excellence
would function to put families in touch with others and lessen the sense of
bewilderment and isolation, she says.

"There could be somebody in Donegal with the same condition as somebody else in
Donegal, and they might not know. It is important to connect them for the
benefits of peer support," she explains.

Welcoming the research, Prof Hilary Hoey, head of the Department of Paediatrics,
Trinity College Dublin and consultant paediatric endocrinologist with the
National Children's Hospital, Tallaght, says that such a centre of excellence
could be modelled on similar schemes currently running in Norway and Sweden.

She says that either the Mater Hospital or Tallaght Hospital would be an ideal
location, because they each have a children and adult hospital on site.

"The components would be a national resource centre which could provide
age-appropriate information. Knowledge is expanding in medicine rapidly.

"In fact, it is exploding and there is no way that health professionals can
access all the information at the time- they can't be expert on every single
condition," she says. "The centre would provide best international practice,
evidence-based information in the Irish context."

Hoey says that such a centre could be funded by the State and through
fundraising, and would pay for itself in the long term by giving quicker
diagnosis and treatment and better support to hard-pressed families.

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2008 The Irish Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              100 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                              Western Daily Press

                            February 26, 2016 Friday

Brave Jack keeps battling rare disease

BYLINE: by Ross Parker; news@westerndailypress.co.uk

SECTION: NEWS:OTHER; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 625  words


The mother of an 11-year-old boy diagnosed as the only person in Britain to
suffer from a rare disease that has left him with no immune system has spoken of
their struggle.

Jack Buchanan suffers from tricho hepato enteric (THE) syndrome which has only
ever been reported 40 times worldwide.

He has to take antibiotics daily and have weekly blood transfusions to prevent
him  getting ill.

The majority of people that suffer from the disease die before the age of five
and no one with it has ever lived past their 21st birthday.

Jack's mother, Jaime Jones, of Bristol, said: "It's really hard. No parent
should have to look at their child and wonder how long they have left.

"It's very isolating as well, I've spoken to other parents in America and
Australia whose children have the same condition and they find it very difficult
because there is no support groups out there.

"If it was Down's syndrome or something similar then you could meet other
parents in a similar situation."

It took doctors eight years to discover the cause of Jack's health problems.

Ms Jones, 32, said she was desperate for a diagnosis but it was not until a
specialist mapped out his genes that they found a mutation which identified the
rare condition.

At the moment there is still no cure for the disease and Jack has spent many
months at a time at Bristol Children's Hospital.

Jack and his mother are now organising a non-uniform day to raise money for The
Grand Appeal at Ashton Park School in Bristol on Monday to thank the doctors and
nurses who have cared for Jack.

The day also coincides with Rare Disease Day.

Ms Jones said: "Jack has spent so much time at Bristol Children's Hospital since
he was born and we wanted to give a little bit back.

"When he was first born we realised something wasn't right because he was wasn't
feeding properly or putting on weight.  He had to be put on a feeding machine,
like a drip, for 20 hours a day. But for a long time doctors weren't able to say
what he had. His condition means he gets tired very quickly and becomes ill if
he over exerts himself. He is at constant risk of infection, so needs to make
sure he gets enough rest to stay healthy.

"We saw that Monday, February 29, was Rare Disease Day and it seemed like a
great time to support The Grand Appeal while helping raise awareness of such
rare conditions like THE.

"We are so grateful to Jack's school, Ashton Park, which has  played a massive
part in helping build his confidence and include him in all its activities,
making any adjustments needed.

"Luckwell Primary School, where Jack's brother Ellis is a pupil, is also taking
part and we hope to raise as much as we can to support The Grand Appeal."

Jack is only able to attend school due to them allowing him to sleep in a
special room if he gets tired.

Ms Jones continued: "It is hard for him because a cold can soon escalate into a
three week hospital stay. His school has been great they have plans in place to
help him whenever someone else is ill.

"Sometimes lessons like PE might be too much for him because he can get tired
very easily but everyone is very helpful."

Everyday Jack has the antibodies from 1,000 people injected into his legs. The
treatment is based on the idea that using a large group of people, many will
have been infected by the majority of illnesses, which Jack's body can then use
to fight germs.

Laura Madams, community fundraiser for The Grand Appeal, said: "Every penny that
The Grand Appeal raises helps us to make sure Bristol Children's Hospital can
provide the very best care possible to young patients like Jack. We are very
proud of the amazing doctors and nurses we have on our doorstep here in Bristol,
who have the knowledge  to care for children with such rare conditions."

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Jaime Jones with son Jack, who is the only person in the UK to suffer
from a rare disease which means he has no immune system PICTURE: JON KENT
Jack swimming with a dolphin in Florida last year

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2016 Localworld
                              All Rights Reserved


                              101 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                     The Journal Record (Oklahoma City, OK)

                            August 14, 2012 Tuesday

The Journal Record Health Care Briefs: August 14, 2012

BYLINE: Journal Record Staff

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1380  words


Scientists find gene at root of rare disease

OKLAHOMA CITY - Scientists at the Oklahoma Medical Research Foundation and the
University of Oklahoma Health Sciences Center have pinpointed the genetic
mutation behind a rare disease known as Adams-Oliver Syndrome.

Adams-Oliver Syndrome is an extremely rare disease, with only 100 cases reported
in medical literature. Symptoms of the disease include scarring on the scalp,
defects of the hands and feet, shorter-than-average height and, in some cases,
mental deficiencies. While the discovery of the mutated gene likely won't affect
the treatment of patients with the disease, it could be used for testing and
genetic counseling purposes.

"Knowing that it's Adams-Oliver Syndrome, even though there's no specific
treatment, means doctors will know about future symptoms and can plan for them,"
said Patrick Gaffney, OMRF researcher and the paper's senior author. "If
patients know they have the disease, it can also help them make more informed
choices about family planning. "

The work, published online in The American Journal of Human Genetics, shows the
promise of using exome sequencing as a method of finding specific genes that
cause rare disorders, Gaffney said.

Susan Hassed, OUHSC researcher, collected and characterized the samples from the
families and is lead author on the paper. OMRF scientists Graham Wiley and
Shaofeng Wang contributed to the research.

Fisher, Lewis join Mercy Clinic

EDMOND - Jessica Fisher and Kayci Lewis have joined Mercy Clinic Obstetrics and
Gynecology in Edmond.

Fisher, an Oklahoma City native, received her bachelor's degree in biology with
a minor in chemistry from Hendrix College in Conway, Ark. She earned her doctor
of osteopathic medicine from the Oklahoma State School of Osteopathic Medicine
in Tulsa. She completed her residency, serving as chief of residency, from
Doctors Hospital Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology in Columbus, Ohio.
Fisher served a year on the National Civilian Community Corps as an Americorps
member.

Lewis, also an Oklahoma City native, earned her bachelor's degree in biology
from Southern Nazarene University and her doctor of osteopathic medicine from
the Oklahoma State School of Osteopathic Medicine in Tulsa. She completed her
residency at the St. Anthony Hospital Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology.

Hearts for Hearing to offer Internet therapy

OKLAHOMA CITY - Hearts for Hearing, an Oklahoma City-based nonprofit hearing
care center, is the first center nationwide selected to provide children with
hearing loss speech-language therapy with the new ihear telepractice technology.

Hearts for Hearing has been solely licensed in Oklahoma by St. Joseph Institute
for the Deaf in St. Louis to offer an Internet therapy program called ihear. The
licensing agreement represents the first time St. Joseph Institute has offered
its Internet therapy programming to another organization specializing in
auditory-verbal therapy.

"Families in rural Oklahoma no longer have to travel long distances to connect
their children with our listening and spoken-language specialists," said Joanna
Smith, Hearts for Hearing executive director. "A home computer with a camera,
sound, and Internet connection is all rural families need to plug into the ihear
technology. "

The Sarkeys Foundation of Norman announced a $50,000 grant to help Hearts for
Hearing fund ihear services.

Connors State starts scholarship program

MUSKOGEE - Connors State College and the Muskogee Foundation have formed a
scholarship program to provide full tuition, fees and books to students who are
studying a health care degree at Connors State and live within the Muskogee
service area.

The $300,000 scholarship program is the largest in Connors State history and
administered through the City of Muskogee Foundation. The Muskogee Difference
Healthcare Scholarship was created to provide the funding to fill the gap
between financial aid funding and the cost of tuition and fees.

Connors State offers degrees in pre-nursing, pre-med, allied health careers,
nursing, LPN-RN Bridge program, medical lab technician and radiology technician
and has plans to add physical therapy assistant, occupational therapy assistant
and medical record in 2013.

Gibson joins OU Physicians

OKLAHOMA CITY - Obstetrician-gynecologist BreeAnna Gibson has established her
practice with OU Physicians.

She has also been named an associate professor with the University of Oklahoma
College of Medicine.

She completed her residency and earned her medical degree at the OU College of
Medicine. She received her undergraduate degree from Harvard University,
Cambridge, Mass.

Cancer center opens sleep lab

TULSA - Cancer Treatment Centers of America in Tulsa has opened a sleep lab.

"Quality sleep has a significant impact on helping our patients fight their
cancer and improve their overall quality of life," said Larry Altshuler,
internist and director of oncology intake, who oversees the new lab. "The sleep
lab will be a valuable adjunct in our efforts to combat a variety of symptoms
from cancer and its treatment, including insomnia, fatigue, narcotic side
effects and many more. "

The sleep lab allows patients to be evaluated for narcolepsy, sleep apnea and
other disorders.

The sleep lab is open for overnight studies three evenings a week and can
accommodate testing for six patients per week.

Eye institute appoints specialists

OKLAHOMA CITY - The Dean McGee Eye Institute has appointed two ophthalmology
specialists to the institute and the University of Oklahoma Department of
Ophthalmology.

Vinay A. Shah is a specialist in diseases and surgery of the retina and vitreous
of the eye and is a clinical associate professor in the Department of
Ophthalmology.

Alex W. Cohen is a specialist in cornea, external disease and refractive surgery
and serves as an assistant professor in the Department of Ophthalmology in the
University of Oklahoma College of Medicine.

Shah completed his medical degree and initial residency and vitreoretinal
fellowship in India. He pursued additional training at the University of
Florida-Jacksonville and the University of Iowa in Iowa City before finishing a
residency in ophthalmology at the University of Missouri-Kansas City and a
fellowship in vitreoretinal surgery at the Kresge Eye Institute in Detroit.

A native of Arizona, Cohen earned his medical degree and doctorate from the
Albert Einstein College of Medicine in New York City before completing both his
residency and fellowship in cornea/external disease/refractive surgery at the
University of Iowa in Iowa City.

First Med Urgent Care adds clinic

OKLAHOMA CITY - First Med Urgent Care has purchased the family Medical & Urgent
Care Center in south Oklahoma City.

Financial terms of the transaction were not disclosed.

Thompson joins Mercy Clinic

OKLAHOMA CITY - Chris Thompson has joined Mercy Clinic to practice hematology
and oncology at Mercy Hospital Oklahoma City.

Thompson, an Oklahoma City native, received his bachelor's degree and his doctor
of medicine from the University of Oklahoma, where he also completed a residency
in internal medicine. He completed his fellowship at the University of Colorado,
where he worked in the department of medical oncology.

Shockley to open practice in Jenks

JENKS - Blake Shockley has joined Central States Orthopedic Specialists.

He will open a new Central States practice at 9716 S. Riverside Dr. in Jenks. It
will be the fifth Central States location in the Tulsa area.

Shockley completed an orthopedic sports medicine fellowship at Emory University
in Atlanta.

A Jenks native, Shockley earned his bachelor's degree in biology in 2002 from
Oklahoma Baptist University and his medical degree in 2006 from the University
of Oklahoma.

A former Jenks High School football player, Shockley will join Bryan Hawkins and
Randall Hendricks of Central States Orthopedic Specialists as a team physician
for the Jenks High School football program.

Integris Physicians hires urogynecologist

OKLAHOMA CITY - Integris Physicians Services has hired Arielle Allen, a
urogynecologist board-certified in obstetrics and gynecology.

She earned her medical degree from Oklahoma State University and completed her
fellowship in female pelvic medicine and reconstructive surgery at the
University of Oklahoma Health Sciences Center.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: General news

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 Dolan Media Newswires
                              All Rights Reserved


                              102 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                The Irish Times

                           February 12, 2013 Tuesday

Health Board

BYLINE: Sylvia Thompson

SECTION: HEALTH; Health News; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 384 words


Rare disease awareness: European-wide information campaigns highlight Rare
Diseases every February. And February 15th has been designated the first
International Angelman Syndrome Day.

Angelman Syndrome (AS) is a rare genetic disorder of chromosome 15 affecting one
in every 25,000 people. Those with the syndrome have severe intellectual
disability, a lack of speech, sleep disturbances, and yet usually a happy
demeanour. There are about 350 people living with AS in Ireland.

See  angelman.iefor more details of the new support group.

Information evening: Better Bladder and Bowel Control for men and women is the
theme of a free information evening in Total Physio, Slievemore Clinic, Old
Dublin Road, Stillorgan, Co Dublin next Monday at 7pm.

It will be given by Anne de Lacey, chartered physiotherapist and former head of
the continence clinic at the Rotunda Hospital. Advanced booking on
info@totalphysio.ie or tel:01 2000555.

Fit to drive: Driving Safely with a Medical Condition is a public meeting on
Friday, February 22nd at 6.30pm in the Royal College of Physicians of Ireland, 6
Kildare St, Dublin.

The aim of the meeting is to help drivers understand the new medical
fitness-to-drive guidelines, issued last month.

There will be opportunities to ask questions about how temporary, permanent and
progressive conditions may affect driving.

Advanced booking via the National Programme Office for Traffic Medicine, email
DirectorTrafficMedicine@rcpi.ie or tel:01 8639 699. A live webcast will be
available on the night.

Caring information: Male carers looking after people with a brain injury are
invited to an information day on February 23rd, 10am-4.30pm in the Mullingar
Park Hotel, Mullingar, Co Westmeath.

Topics to be discussed include managing behaviours and emotions, difficult
relationships and situations.

More details from Ned Rispin of Brain Injury Ireland on 086 3821033 or
ned@briireland.ie

Lollipop Day: This year s national Lollipop Day to raise awareness of
oesophageal cancer and funding for the Oesophageal Cancer Fund (OCF) will be
held on Friday and Saturday, February 22nd and 23rd.

Ireland has one of the highest rates of oesophageal cancer in Europe with about
450 new cases diagnosed each year. Risk factors include smoking and obesity,
while early detection is vital. See  lollipopday.ie

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2013 The Irish Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              103 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                    Times-News (Burlington, North Carolina)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                               May 2, 2014 Friday

Sweet 16: Burlington teen peddles for Pitt-Hopkins syndrome in Philly

BYLINE: Chelsey Stark, Times-News, Burlington, N.C.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 471 words


May 02--Liz Jennings was diagnosed with Pitt Hopkins syndrome three years ago.
Ever since, she's been defying what medical journals say she can and cannot do.

Pitt Hopkins Syndrome is a rare disease; fewer than 300 people have been
diagnosed with it in the world. It's a severe neuro-developmental disorder
characterized by developmental delays, problems with motor coordination and
balance, breathing abnormalities, seizures and intellectual disability.

Despite these challenges, Liz, of Burlington, will be riding her adapted
tricycle for the 11 miles of the Million Dollar Bike Ride while her mother, Judy
Jennings, runs behind her. The event is Saturday in Philadelphia, and will raise
funds for rare disease research.

Liz grew up around bikes. Judy Jennings started working at the Elon Bike Shop on
Webb Avenue in Liz's early years, carrying her around in a Baby Bjorn after
school or in the summers.

"We would go on bike rides carrying her in a little trailer," Jennings said.
"Once she was old enough to ride a bike, she really took to it and has always
seemed to like it."

Now a freshman at Williams High School, Liz hasn't stopped pedaling.

The duo has trained for the 11 miles persistently even through hard times. Not
long after completing a 5K race together, Liz got H1N1, which set her back
substantially. After three weeks of recovery, bad weather hit.

"We've been training at the YMCA on a stationary bike," Judy Jennings said. "She
also has a stationary bike in her bedroom that we can adjust the resistance on;
she'll ride for about an hour on those."

Neither of them is worried about completing the race, especially with Liz's
special motivation: her music.

"She has songs that she has picked out, and we are going to play music the whole
time," Jennings said. "If she's listening to music, she'll just keep pedaling."

The Million Dollar Bike Ride is an event to raise research funds for the Center
for Orphan Disease Research and Therapy at the University of Pennsylvania, which
will then match the money raised by Team Pitt Hopkins and award a research
grant.

Liz's personal fundraising page for the event has surpassed her goal of $5,000
to go to the research. The team as a whole has raised more than $50,000, meaning
more than $100,000 will be going to research for the treatment and possible cure
of Pitt Hopkins.

"I'd also love to see them do some kind of research with exercise and how that
can help improve the quality of life for folks with Pitt Hopkins," Jennings
said. "I think [an active lifestyle] has made a huge difference for Elizabeth."

The age cutoff for the race is 16. Luckily, Liz's 16th birthday is on the day of
the race. It will be a very sweet 16 indeed.

___ (c)2014 Times-News (Burlington, N.C.) Visit Times-News (Burlington, N.C.) at
www.thetimesnews.com Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20140502-BT-Sweet-16-Burlington-teen-peddles-for-Pitt-Hopkins-syndrome
-in-Philly-0502-20140502

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BT


                           Copyright 2014 Times-News


                              104 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          The Morehead News (Kentucky)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                              July 5, 2016 Tuesday

Howard winning battle against rare disease

BYLINE: Brad Stacy, The Morehead News, Ky.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 737 words


July 05--A Lewis County man in charge of three large construction projects in
Morehead is showing signs of improvement after contracting an uncommon disease.

Sanford "Sam" Howard, founder and CEO of Trace Creek Construction of Vanceburg,
is expected to make a full recovery after being diagnosed with Gullain-Barré
syndrome more than two months ago, according to Eddie Sorrell of Trace Creek.

Gullain-Barré syndrome is a disorder in which the body's immune system attacks
part of the peripheral nervous system. The first symptoms include varying
degrees of weakness or tingling sensations in the legs and spreads to the arms
and upper body. The symptoms can increase in intensity until certain muscles
cannot be used at all and, when severe, the person is almost totally paralyzed.

"Sam is starting to respond and come out of it," said Sorrell. "His recovery
could be up to three years and he will have to learn to walk and utilize other
motor skills again. But thankfully, he's expected to have a full recovery. It's
just going to take a while."

Sorrell said Howard's early symptoms were a cough that progressed enough until
he was admitted to Southern Ohio Medical Center in Portsmouth, Ohio. He was
paralyzed three days later on April 19 and placed on a ventilator to assist his
breathing.

"Where you might have an infection, instead of your immune system attacking the
infection it attacks your nervous system and shuts you down," said Sorrell. "He
probably has as bad of a case as you can get. Most people that get this come out
of it quite a bit quicker. He still can't move his arms and legs, but he can
open his eyes, nod a little bit and that's just all happened within the last few
weeks."

Sorrell said Howard is good as it gets as a construction professional,
describing him as "a great boss who fights for the rights of others".

"Sam's a self-starter and he expects his employees to be the same," Sorrell
said. "He gives his employees the reins to make decisions and to do projects
just like it's their own. He's great to his employees and really cares for the
people. He's in Frankfort constantly fighting the Senate and House about
construction funding, companies, fairness acts and so much more."

He added that Howard also is a big asset to the community.

"He's so involved in county governments and schools systems across the state,
soliciting them and meeting to find their needs," said Sorrell. "He's our
motivator. He's always involved in fundraising for local kids. I've never seen
him turn anyone away. He's a giver to the community and we miss him."

David Bolt, mayor of Lakeview Heights and former executive at
PrimaryPlus-Vanceburg, said he's worked with Howard on many different projects
and he's as good as it gets, both professionally and out of the office.

"Over the course of my 46-year career I've worked with numerous contractors and
builders," said Bolt. "Sam is by far and away the best and most straightforward.
He always gave himself to every project. I think the world of Sam. He's
committed to this area of the state in helping it grow and prosper. He's been a
friend of mine for more than 20 years and I just hope he gets through this the
best he can."

State Rep. Rocky Adkins echoed those sentiments, saying Howard is much more than
a solid businessman, but a great community leader as well.

"I've known Sam for several years and he's a very business-minded person," said
Adkins. "He's a lot more than that. He's very much a community-minded person as
well. He's continuously involved in fundraising projects, giving back to the
community and being a very integral part of the area. He's worked hard and
building a strong company, but he also has a huge, soft heart that gives back.
One thing I know about Sam is that he's a fighter, not a quitter. I think that's
one thing that will help lead him out of this situation."

Trace Creek is currently the construction manager for Rowan County's new
detention center and the new KCTCS campus being built at the John Will Stacy
MMRC Regional Business Park. They are also using a design-build contract to
construct Better Life Church near Walmart.

To keep up with Howard, visit the Facebook page: Prayers For Sam#samstrong.

Brad Stacy can be reached at bstacy@themoreheadnews.com or by telephone at
784-4116.

___ (c)2016 The Morehead News (Morehead, Ky.) Visit The Morehead News (Morehead,
Ky.) at themoreheadnews.com Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20160705-ZM-Howard-winning-battle-against-rare-disease-0705-20160705

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: ZM


                        Copyright 2016 The Morehead News


                              105 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                           September 2, 2008 Tuesday

Experts unite to confront rare disease

BYLINE:  Helen Collis

SECTION: Pg. 19

LENGTH: 552 words


Children across the country will gather at Torbay Hospital at the first  clinic
for an extremely rare disease. Clinicians will be joined by consultants at
Birmingham's Children's Hospital to pool the best of their knowledge for a new
combined clinic for teenagers diagnosed with a rare genetic condition, Alstrom
Syndrome.

This is a progressive, hereditary, genetic disorder, which often sees children
quickly developing a sensitivity to light and rapidly gaining weight.

As they grow to adolescence, multiple organ systems can be affected, resulting
in blindness, hearing impairment, type two diabetes, heart failure, liver
disease, urological dysfunction, pulmonary fibrosis, and renal failure.

Just over 500 cases have been reported across the world since it was discovered
in 1959.

Kay Parkinson, who has two children with the syndrome, has campaigned for better
support for 20 years.

Mrs Parkinson, from Paignton, South Devon, first set up the charity, Alstrom UK.
She started up supportive group meetings in a hotel and doctors from Torbay
Hospital would attend.

Now the charity has set up the first  clinic for the syndrome and patients from
across the country are expected to attend to access the best medical knowledge
of the condition.

Mrs Parkinson said: "This is the culmination of many years of hard work. This
means patients will get specialist care by experts and we can learn more about
the disease and how to prevent the onset of various problems."

Mrs Parkinson said many of the 29 patients in the country have been diagnosed
late in life because many doctors have never seen the condition before. The
clinic, which will bring together experts in the syndrome, will offer them the
best possible care and advice. Dr Mike Hales, from Torbay Hospital, has worked
with Mrs Parkinson for many year, helping to secure funding from the NHS's
National Commissioning Group. Torbay Hospital is the only one in the South West
to receive government funding to provide a national service for a rare disease.

Next Monday young people from across the country will gather at Torbay Hospital
for the first ever combined adolescent Alstrom clinic.

They will be met by doctors and other health professionals from the two national
centres of expertise, Birmingham and Torbay, and together they will review the
effects of the syndrome on the youngsters' health and lives.

Consultants from several different specialities are brought together in one
place and can compare notes about the wide-ranging complications being
experienced by patients. This approach is being taken one step further for
younger patients with the inclusion of paediatric experts from the country's
only other Alstrom treatment centre.

In addition, Torbay Hospital's Alstrom clinic was hailed earlier this year at an
international conference in Copenhagen as the way forward for treating rare
disorders, rather than specialists working in isolation, and patients being seen
in multiple clinics.

Dr Richard Paisey spoke at the convention, run by the European Organisation for
Rare Diseases, to an audience of participants from 24 countries. Dr Paisey,
consultant in diabetes and endocrinology at Torbay Hospital, said: "There's hope
that understanding this rare condition will throw more light on the very common
problems of type two diabetes and heart disease."

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 83


                 Copyright 2008 Western Morning News (Plymouth)
                              All Rights Reserved


                              106 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                      Western Morning News (Plymouth, UK)

                           September 2, 2008 Tuesday

Experts unite to confront rare disease

BYLINE: Helen Collis

SECTION: Pg. 19

LENGTH: 552 words


Children across the country will gather at Torbay Hospital at the first  clinic
for an extremely rare disease. Clinicians will be joined by consultants at
Birmingham's Children's Hospital to pool the best of their knowledge for a new
combined clinic for teenagers diagnosed with a rare genetic condition, Alstrom
Syndrome.

This is a progressive, hereditary, genetic disorder, which often sees children
quickly developing a sensitivity to light and rapidly gaining weight.

As they grow to adolescence, multiple organ systems can be affected, resulting
in blindness, hearing impairment, type two diabetes, heart failure, liver
disease, urological dysfunction, pulmonary fibrosis, and renal failure.

Just over 500 cases have been reported across the world since it was discovered
in 1959.

Kay Parkinson, who has two children with the syndrome, has campaigned for better
support for 20 years.

Mrs Parkinson, from Paignton, South Devon, first set up the charity, Alstrom UK.
She started up supportive group meetings in a hotel and doctors from Torbay
Hospital would attend.

Now the charity has set up the first  clinic for the syndrome and patients from
across the country are expected to attend to access the best medical knowledge
of the condition.

Mrs Parkinson said: "This is the culmination of many years of hard work. This
means patients will get specialist care by experts and we can learn more about
the disease and how to prevent the onset of various problems."

Mrs Parkinson said many of the 29 patients in the country have been diagnosed
late in life because many doctors have never seen the condition before. The
clinic, which will bring together experts in the syndrome, will offer them the
best possible care and advice. Dr Mike Hales, from Torbay Hospital, has worked
with Mrs Parkinson for many year, helping to secure funding from the NHS's
National Commissioning Group. Torbay Hospital is the only one in the South West
to receive government funding to provide a national service for a rare disease.

Next Monday young people from across the country will gather at Torbay Hospital
for the first ever combined adolescent Alstrom clinic.

They will be met by doctors and other health professionals from the two national
centres of expertise, Birmingham and Torbay, and together they will review the
effects of the syndrome on the youngsters' health and lives.

Consultants from several different specialities are brought together in one
place and can compare notes about the wide-ranging complications being
experienced by patients. This approach is being taken one step further for
younger patients with the inclusion of paediatric experts from the country's
only other Alstrom treatment centre.

In addition, Torbay Hospital's Alstrom clinic was hailed earlier this year at an
international conference in Copenhagen as the way forward for treating rare
disorders, rather than specialists working in isolation, and patients being seen
in multiple clinics.

Dr Richard Paisey spoke at the convention, run by the European Organisation for
Rare Diseases, to an audience of participants from 24 countries. Dr Paisey,
consultant in diabetes and endocrinology at Torbay Hospital, said: "There's hope
that understanding this rare condition will throw more light on the very common
problems of type two diabetes and heart disease."

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 83


                 Copyright 2008 Western Morning News (Plymouth)
                              All Rights Reserved


                              107 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                      Western Morning News (Plymouth, UK)

                           September 2, 2008 Tuesday

Experts unite to confront rare disease

BYLINE: Helen Collis

SECTION: Pg. 19

LENGTH: 552 words


Children across the country will gather at Torbay Hospital at the first  clinic
for an extremely rare disease. Clinicians will be joined by consultants at
Birmingham's Children's Hospital to pool the best of their knowledge for a new
combined clinic for teenagers diagnosed with a rare genetic condition, Alstrom
Syndrome.

This is a progressive, hereditary, genetic disorder, which often sees children
quickly developing a sensitivity to light and rapidly gaining weight.

As they grow to adolescence, multiple organ systems can be affected, resulting
in blindness, hearing impairment, type two diabetes, heart failure, liver
disease, urological dysfunction, pulmonary fibrosis, and renal failure.

Just over 500 cases have been reported across the world since it was discovered
in 1959.

Kay Parkinson, who has two children with the syndrome, has campaigned for better
support for 20 years.

Mrs Parkinson, from Paignton, South Devon, first set up the charity, Alstrom UK.
She started up supportive group meetings in a hotel and doctors from Torbay
Hospital would attend.

Now the charity has set up the first  clinic for the syndrome and patients from
across the country are expected to attend to access the best medical knowledge
of the condition.

Mrs Parkinson said: "This is the culmination of many years of hard work. This
means patients will get specialist care by experts and we can learn more about
the disease and how to prevent the onset of various problems."

Mrs Parkinson said many of the 29 patients in the country have been diagnosed
late in life because many doctors have never seen the condition before. The
clinic, which will bring together experts in the syndrome, will offer them the
best possible care and advice. Dr Mike Hales, from Torbay Hospital, has worked
with Mrs Parkinson for many year, helping to secure funding from the NHS's
National Commissioning Group. Torbay Hospital is the only one in the South West
to receive government funding to provide a national service for a rare disease.

Next Monday young people from across the country will gather at Torbay Hospital
for the first ever combined adolescent Alstrom clinic.

They will be met by doctors and other health professionals from the two national
centres of expertise, Birmingham and Torbay, and together they will review the
effects of the syndrome on the youngsters' health and lives.

Consultants from several different specialities are brought together in one
place and can compare notes about the wide-ranging complications being
experienced by patients. This approach is being taken one step further for
younger patients with the inclusion of paediatric experts from the country's
only other Alstrom treatment centre.

In addition, Torbay Hospital's Alstrom clinic was hailed earlier this year at an
international conference in Copenhagen as the way forward for treating rare
disorders, rather than specialists working in isolation, and patients being seen
in multiple clinics.

Dr Richard Paisey spoke at the convention, run by the European Organisation for
Rare Diseases, to an audience of participants from 24 countries. Dr Paisey,
consultant in diabetes and endocrinology at Torbay Hospital, said: "There's hope
that understanding this rare condition will throw more light on the very common
problems of type two diabetes and heart disease."

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 83


                 Copyright 2008 Western Morning News (Plymouth)
                              All Rights Reserved


                              108 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           September 16, 2013 Monday

Washington: NIH scientists pursue new therapies to improve rare disease drug
development

LENGTH: 867  words

DATELINE: Washington


National Institute of Health, The Government of USA has issued the following
news release:

Four new pre-clinical drug development projects at the National Institutes of
Health will target a form of blindness and diseases characterized by cardiac
problems. The projects were selected for their potential to treat specific rare
diseases and to help scientists uncover new information that can be shared with
other researchers.

The studies will be funded through the Therapeutics for Rare and Neglected
Diseases (TRND) program at the NIH's National Center for Advancing Translational
Sciences (NCATS). This group of projects also marks the TRND program's first use
of stem cells as well as its first collaboration with a large pharmaceutical
company, Eli Lilly, to co-develop a treatment for a rare disease.

"TRND is grounded in partnerships with academic, government, pharmaceutical and
patient advocacy groups. Working in collaboration, scientists conduct
pre-clinical development of new drugs and then advance them to first-in-human
clinical trials," said NCATS Director Christopher P. Austin, M.D. "Like all
NCATS programs, TRND seeks to develop new technologies and more efficient
paradigms for translation, in the context of important unmet medical needs."

Two projects employ therapeutic approaches to developing a treatment for
retinitis pigmentosa, a severe form of hereditary blindness. A third project
focuses on a potential treatment for hypoparathyroidism, a hormone-deficiency
syndrome that can lead to cardiac problems and convulsions.

The remaining project aims to develop a possible therapeutic that targets a
cardiac disorder associated with LEOPARD syndrome, an extremely rare genetic
disease that affects many areas of the body. About 80 percent of patients with
LEOPARD syndrome have a cardiac disorder called hypertrophic cardiomyopathy,
which is a thickening of the heart muscle that forces the heart to work harder
to pump blood, which can lead to early death.

A rare disease is one that affects fewer than 200,000 Americans. NIH estimates
that, in total, there are more than 6,000 rare diseases. However, effective
pharmacologic treatments exist for only about 200 of these illnesses.

Private companies often do not pursue new therapies for rare diseases due to the
low anticipated return on investment. Through TRND, NCATS advances potential
treatments for rare and neglected tropical diseases to first-in-human trials, an
approach known as "de-risking." This strategy can make possible new drugs more
commercially viable and attractive to outside partners, who can invest in their
further development and additional clinical trials. The new projects are:
Long-acting parathyroid hormone analog for the treatment of hypoparathyroidism

Henry U. Bryant, Ph.D., distinguished research fellow
Lilly Research Laboratories, Eli Lilly and Company, Indianapolis
Use of rapamycin for the treatment of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy in patients
with LEOPARD syndrome

Maria I. Kontaridis, Ph.D., assistant professor of medicine
Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, Boston
Use of retinal progenitor cells for the treatment of retinitis pigmentosa

Henry J. Klassen, M.D., Ph.D., director, Stem Cell and Retinal Regeneration
Program
University of California, Irvine School of Medicine
Small molecule pharmacological chaperone for the treatment of retinitis
pigmentosa

William F. Brubaker, Ph.D., chief executive officer
Bikam Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Cambridge, Mass.

The project descriptions are available at
http://www.ncats.nih.gov/trnd-projects.html.

TRND partners do not receive grants. The collaborative project teams receive
in-kind support and gain access to TRND researchers with rare disease drug
development capabilities, expertise, and clinical and regulatory resources. Each
project has established data-driven milestones to track progress. TRND staff may
choose to discontinue projects that do not achieve milestones in the established
timeframe. This allows other more promising candidates to enter the program.

"We are particularly excited about this set of collaborative projects for its
potential to produce treatments for underserved patient populations," said John
C. McKew, Ph.D., acting director of NCATS Division of Pre-Clinical Innovation
and director of the TRND program.

A number of early projects fostered by TRND have reached the stage where
partners, such as pharmaceutical, biotechnology or disease groups, are being
sought to move the treatments out of TRND and in the next phases of clinical
development. Through the program in the last two years, TRND researchers and
collaborators have advanced four projects to human clinical trials, evaluating
treatments for sickle cell disease, chronic lymphocytic leukemia, hereditary
inclusion body myopathy and Niemann-Pick Type C.

TRND projects are applied for via a solicitation process, and NCATS currently is
accepting applications until September 30, 2013. For more information, visit
http://www.ncats.nih.gov/research/rare-diseases/trnd/apply/apply.html. To read
more about TRND, its projects and clinical research studies, see
http://www.ncats.nih.gov/research/rare-diseases/trnd/trnd.html.

For more information please visit: http://www.nih.gov

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2013 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              109 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                       March 2, 2013 Saturday 6:30 AM EST

Alexion Joins Eurordis, NORD and Patient Organizations Worldwide in Celebrating
Rare Disease Day 2013

LENGTH: 1842  words


New Delhi, March 2 -- Alexion Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Nasdaq: ALXN), joins the
European Organization for Rare Diseases (EURORDIS), the National Organization
for Rare Disorders (NORD) and patient organizations worldwide in celebrating
Rare Disease Day 2013, a global effort to focus attention on rare diseases,
their profound impact on patients, and the need for improved diagnosis and
treatment. The theme of this year's celebration, "Rare Disorders without
Borders," aligns with Alexion's mission of developing and delivering
life-transforming therapies for patients worldwide who suffer from severe,
life-threatening diseases that are ultra-rare.



"On Rare Disease Day, we are breaking isolation and raising awareness. Patients
worldwide are not alone. We urge all stakeholders to reach across borders and
find common solutions to living with serious, chronic and life-threatening rare
diseases," said Yann Le Cam, Chief Executive Officer, EURORDIS. "Working
together we can promote rare diseases as a public health priority, so to improve
patients' access to diagnosis and treatment."

Many rare and ultra-rare diseases are chronic, progressive and marked by
continuing pain, severe disability and high mortality rates. Diagnosing and
managing these rare diseases is often made difficult by a lack of scientific
knowledge, research and medical innovation. Few physicians are familiar with
diagnosing and treating these illnesses, which frequently leads to missed,
delayed or inaccurate diagnoses even when an approved, effective therapy is
available.1 Because of this, it is important to educate the medical community
through disease awareness programs and diagnostic initiatives to identify
patients suffering from rare and ultra-rare diseases as early as possible.

"Like many patients coping with a rare or ultra-rare disease, it took several
months for our daughter to get an accurate diagnosis," said Denise Schmidt,
mother of a young adult diagnosed with atypical hemolytic uremic syndrome
(aHUS), a chronic, ultra-rare and life-threatening disease that can
progressively damage vital organs. "Increasing awareness among physicians and
patients is a vital first step to ensuring our loved ones receive the best
treatment and care."

Alexion developed Soliris (eculizumab), a first-in-class terminal complement
inhibitor, from the laboratory through regulatory approval and
commercialization. Soliris is approved in the US, European Union, Japan and
other countries as the first and only treatment for patients with paroxysmal
nocturnal hemoglobinuria (PNH), a debilitating, life-threatening and ultra-rare
blood disorder. Soliris is also approved in the US and the European Union as the
first and only treatment for patients with atypical hemolytic uremic syndrome
(aHUS), a debilitating and life-threatening ultra-rare genetic disorder.

"We understand that every day is Rare Disease Day for patients and families who
suffer from severe and life-threatening ultra-rare disorders and often live
without hope because an effective treatment option is not available," said
Leonard Bell, M.D., Chief Executive Officer of Alexion. "The employees of
Alexion are committed to developing and delivering therapies that can transform
the lives of these patients. We now serve patients in 50 countries by focusing
on disease education to help patients with PNH and aHUS receive an accurate
diagnosis and appropriate treatment. At the same time, we continue to invest in
research and development with the goal of providing highly innovative therapies
to patients with additional severe and life-threatening disorders, which also
happen to be extremely rare."

Bringing Hope Across the Globe

Alexion is currently developing five highly innovative therapeutics, including
eculizumab (Soliris), which are being investigated in nine severe and
life-threatening ultra-rare disorders. The company's development programs are
solely focused on:

* Severe disorders with devastating and life-threatening medical consequences

* Disorders with ineffective, or no treatment options

* Disorders that are ultra-rare and affect very small numbers of patients

To learn more about Rare Disease Day, visit www.rarediseaseday.us for U.S.
activities and www.rarediseaseday.org for global activities.

About Rare and Ultra-Rare Disorders

In the United States, a disease is defined as rare if it affects fewer than 650
patients per million of population.2 The European Union definition of a rare
disease is one that affects fewer than five patients per 10,000 of population.3
In contrast, a disease is generally considered to be ultra-rare if it affects
fewer than 20 patients per million of population4 (one patient per 50,000) - and
most ultra-rare diseases affect far fewer people than this.

Despite the very small numbers of patients they affect, the impact of these rare
and ultra-rare diseases on patients, their families, and society is profound, as
many are severe, chronic and progressive, with high mortality rates. Patients
with severe and life-threatening ultra-rare diseases often live without hope,
have no effective treatment options and may face premature death.

About aHUS

aHUS is a chronic, ultra-rare, and life-threatening disease in which a genetic
deficiency in one or more complement regulatory genes causes chronic
uncontrolled complement activation, resulting in complement-mediated thrombotic
microangiopathy (TMA), the formation of blood clots in small blood vessels
throughout the body.5,6 Permanent, uncontrolled complement activation in aHUS
causes a life-long risk for TMA, which leads to sudden, catastrophic, and
life-threatening damage to the kidney, brain, heart, and other vital organs, and
premature death.5,7 Sixty-five percent of all patients with aHUS require kidney
dialysis, have permanent kidney damage or die within the first year after
diagnosis despite plasma exchange or plasma infusion (PE/PI).8,9 The majority of
patients with aHUS who receive a kidney transplant commonly experience
subsequent systemic TMA, resulting in a 90% transplant failure rate in these TMA
patients.10

aHUS affects both children and adults.11 Complement-mediated TMA also causes
reduction in platelet count (thrombocytopenia) and red blood cell destruction
(hemolysis). While mutations have been identified in at least ten different
complement regulatory genes, mutations are not identified in 30-50% of patients
with a confirmed diagnosis of aHUS.11

About PNH

PNH is an ultra-rare blood disorder in which chronic, uncontrolled activation of
complement, a component of the normal immune system, results in hemolysis
(destruction of the patient's red blood cells). PNH strikes people of all ages,
with an average age of onset in the early 30s.12 Approximately 10% of all
patients first develop symptoms at 21 years of age or younger.13 PNH develops
without warning and can occur in men and women of all races, backgrounds and
ages. PNH often goes unrecognized, with delays in diagnosis ranging from one to
more than 10 years.14 In the period of time before Soliris was available, it had
been estimated that approximately one-third of patients with PNH did not survive
more than five years from the time of diagnosis.12 PNH has been identified more
commonly among patients with disorders of the bone marrow, including aplastic
anemia (AA) and myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS).15-17 In patients with
thrombosis of unknown origin, PNH may be an underlying cause.12

About Soliris

Soliris is a first-in-class terminal complement inhibitor developed from the
laboratory through regulatory approval and commercialization by Alexion. Soliris
is approved in the U.S., European Union, Japan and other countries as the first
and only treatment for patients with paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria (PNH),
a debilitating, ultra-rare and life-threatening blood disorder, characterized by
complement-mediated hemolysis (destruction of red blood cells). Soliris is
indicated to reduce hemolysis.

Soliris is also approved in the U.S. and the European Union as the first and
only treatment for patients with atypical hemolytic uremic syndrome (aHUS), a
debilitating, ultra-rare and life-threatening genetic disorder characterized by
complement-mediated thrombotic microangiopathy, or TMA (blood clots in small
vessels). Soliris is indicated to inhibit complement-mediated TMA. The
effectiveness of Soliris in aHUS is based on the effects on TMA and renal
function. Prospective clinical trials in additional patients are ongoing to
confirm the benefit of Soliris in patients with aHUS. Soliris is not indicated
for the treatment of patients with Shiga toxin E. coli related hemolytic uremic
syndrome (STEC-HUS).

Alexion's breakthrough approach in complement inhibition has received the
pharmaceutical industry's highest honors: the 2008 Prix Galien USA Award for
Best Biotechnology Product with broad implications for future biomedical
research, and the 2009 Prix Galien France Award in the category of Drugs for
Rare Diseases. More information, including the full prescribing information on
Soliris, is available at www.soliris.net.

Important Safety Information

The US product label for Soliris includes a boxed warning: "Life-threatening and
fatal meningococcal infections have occurred in patients treated with Soliris.
Meningococcal infection may become rapidly life-threatening or fatal if not
recognized and treated early. Comply with the most current Advisory Committee on
Immunization Practices (ACIP) recommendations for meningococcal vaccination in
patients with complement deficiencies. Immunize patients with a meningococcal
vaccine at least 2 weeks prior to administering the first dose of Soliris,
unless the risks of delaying Soliris therapy outweigh the risk of developing a
meningococcal infection. (See Serious Meningococcal Infections (5.1) for
additional guidance on the management of meningococcal infection.) Monitor
patients for early signs of meningococcal infections and evaluate immediately if
infection is suspected. Soliris is available only through a restricted program
under a Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy (REMS). Under the Soliris REMS,
prescribers must enroll in the program (5.2). Enrollment in the Soliris REMS
program and additional information are available by telephone: 1-888-soliris
(1-888-765-4747)."

In patients with PNH, the most frequently reported adverse events observed with
Soliris treatment in clinical studies were headache, nasopharyngitis (runny
nose), back pain and nausea. Soliris treatment of patients with PNH should not
alter anticoagulant management because the effect of withdrawal of anticoagulant
therapy during Soliris treatment has not been established. In patients with
aHUS, the most frequently reported adverse events observed with Soliris
treatment in clinical studies were hypertension, upper respiratory tract
infection, diarrhea, headache, anemia, vomiting, nausea, urinary tract
infection, and leukopenia. Please see full prescribing information for Soliris,
including boxed WARNING regarding risk of serious meningococcal infection.

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2013 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              110 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          The West Australian (Perth)

                             June 20, 2015 Saturday
                                 First Edition

Rare is a difficult world;
 Moves are afoot to help more families facing diseases that leave them feeling
isolated and helpless ;
 -----QUOTE----

SECTION: MAI; Pg. 97

LENGTH: 1117  words


R ebecca Watson realised her daughter Marlee was different from the other babies
in her motherâ[#x20ac][TM]s group when Marlee was just seven months old.

As time went by, the new mother became even more convinced, as other children
progressed to walking while Marlee showed no signs of even wanting to stand.

After more than two years and being referred to different specialists, Marlee
was diagnosed with a rare disease called Rett syndrome.

Rett syndrome is a serious neurological disorder affecting only one in 9000
girls. Now aged four, Marlee cannot speak or swallow, use her hands or walk
unaided.

For Ms Watson, the diagnosis was better than not knowing what was wrong with
Marlee because she and her husband John could start working on how to help her.

â[#x20ac]oeIt means itâ[#x20ac][TM]s Rett syndrome, not a hundred other
things,â[#x20ac] she said. â[#x20ac]oeItâ[#x20ac][TM]s got a path.
Itâ[#x20ac][TM]s got people looking at it from a research point of view. I think
you get lost on the way.â[#x20ac]

Feeling lost in a health system that better caters for more prevalent and
well-understood ailments is increasingly common among people with rare diseases
and their families, according to Professor Hugh Dawkins from the WA health
departmentâ[#x20ac][TM]s office of population health genomics.

About 190,000 West Australians, including 63,000 children, live with a rare
disease. Parkinsonâ[#x20ac][TM]s disease, motor neurone disease,
Huntingtonâ[#x20ac][TM]s, haemophilia, muscular dystrophy and cystic fibrosis
are among more than 6000 known rare diseases. But there are thought to be up to
8000 in the community, unknown and without a name.

A rare disease is life-threatening or chronically debilitating with a prevalence
of no more than one in 2000 people. Like Marlee, people with rare diseases often
have multiple health problems and need care from different services. Their
rareness makes diagnosis difficult, with some people waiting years and others
never getting a diagnosis.

Recently, geneticists in WA saw a 69-year-old who had been seeking a diagnosis
for 65 years.

â[#x20ac]oeIt was a 65-year journey, without a diagnosis, getting incorrect
treatment and being given different names for the disease,â[#x20ac] Professor
Dawkins said.

Last yearâ[#x20ac][TM]s Australian Rare Disease Survey, conducted by Professor
Dawkinsâ[#x20ac][TM] team, revealed 18 per cent of people with a rare disease
waited more than 10 years for a diagnosis. Half of the 746 people surveyed were
first misdiagnosed and almost a third of them saw more than six doctors before
being diagnosed.

WAâ[#x20ac][TM]s new rare diseases strategy â[#x20ac]" a first in the nation
â[#x20ac]" outlines measures to improve the lives of people with rare diseases
in the State by diagnosing more and sooner, so those people can be cared for
better and treated where possible. Professor Dawkins said increasingly people
with rare diseases said they were invisible to the health system.

â[#x20ac]oePeople talk about a â[#x20ac][#x2dc]diagnostic odysseyâ[#x20ac][TM].
They travel through the health system. Itâ[#x20ac][TM]s difficult to get a
diagnosis. They see multiple specialists. They become disenfranchised,â[#x20ac]
he said.

Under the three-year plan, the health department will look at creating rare
disease clinics in WA where GPs or specialists can refer people with a suspected
rare disease in a bid to get them diagnosis and treatment.

Ms Watson recalled the frustration of referral after referral, waiting for
months at a time for an appointment and, once Marlee had been diagnosed, a lack
of knowledge and understanding among medical professionals.

As a radiographer, she had a better idea of the workings of the health system
than most.

â[#x20ac]oeItâ[#x20ac][TM]s the whole process with having something different. I
just feel for people who donâ[#x20ac][TM]t have any medical understanding. I
donâ[#x20ac][TM]t know how they do it,â[#x20ac] she
said.â[#x20ac]oeIâ[#x20ac][TM]ve always said we have such wonderful services
available but how do you get into them?

â[#x20ac]oeI found that very frustrating because as a mum or dad you
donâ[#x20ac][TM]t have control. Your worst fear is that thereâ[#x20ac][TM]s
something you can do to fix it and no oneâ[#x20ac][TM]s picking it up.â[#x20ac]

Professor Dawkins said the problem could be solved in part by raising the
profile of rare diseases among GPs and specialists and giving them tools to help
with diagnosis.

Second, Professor Dawkins said, the WA health department could soon start using
the existing 2500 codes for different rare diseases to track them in the system
and the community.

In August, Australasiaâ[#x20ac][TM]s first â[#x20ac]oeundiagnosed diseases
programâ[#x20ac] workshop will be held in Perth where difficult, complex and
rare cases that have been baffling specialists will be discussed by experts from
Australia and the US.

â[#x20ac]oeWe canâ[#x20ac][TM]t just be concentrating on the ones that are easy
to diagnose and present evenly,â[#x20ac] Professor Dawkins said.

â[#x20ac]oeWe have to be working on the ones that are still difficult to
diagnose. Thatâ[#x20ac][TM]s the purpose of this workshop.â[#x20ac]

Mark Gummer, from support group HeartKids WA, said families with children who
have a rare disease could feel alone, isolated and secluded.

â[#x20ac]oeThe process of arriving at a diagnosis is often lengthy, painful and
distressing, especially when this affects a child,â[#x20ac] he said.
â[#x20ac]oeOnce the diagnosis is known to families, they can easily become
overwhelmed by things like the frequency of medical appointments, medical
terminology which they may not understand, and just the overall processes and
procedures involved with treatment.

â[#x20ac]oeThe complexity of specific health issues can often be inexplicable
and unresolvable.â[#x20ac]

Amanda Samanek, from support group Genetic and Rare Disease Network WA, said the
strategy was an important start to address major concerns of people with rare
diseases and their carers.

â[#x20ac]oeSimply because rare diseases are rare this can mean that there are
greater challenges for people throughout their lives from the difficulties many
people face in obtaining a timely diagnosis, to the burden of high-cost
medicines and high dependency on health, community and disability care,â[#x20ac]
she said.

Marlee Watson lives as best as she can with her rare disease, thanks to her
family, friends and doctors.

She goes to kindergarten at a mainstream school and has the help of an aide. She
is learning to communicate with an â[#x20ac]oeeye gazeâ[#x20ac] device.

The speech-generating computer tracks Marleeâ[#x20ac][TM]s eye movements when
she fixes her gaze on an image to generate a question, comment or response.

Ms Watson said Marleeâ[#x20ac][TM]s prognosis was uncertain, but the support,
particularly from the Telethon Kids Institute-based Australian Rett Syndrome
Study, that came with her diagnosis helped.

â[#x20ac]oeWeâ[#x20ac][TM]ve got a challenge but we can try,â[#x20ac] she said.

â[#x20ac]oeYou just feel like youâ[#x20ac][TM]ve got a bit of control and you
can make a difference in their life. I think thatâ[#x20ac][TM]s the
key.â[#x20ac]

Health issues can often be inexplicable and unresolvable.

Professor Hugh Dawkins

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2015 West Australian NewsPapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              111 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                 Irish Examiner

                             March 1, 2016 Tuesday

'Families waiting more than a year for genetic services'

SECTION: IRELAND

LENGTH: 327 words


A conference on rare diseases held in Dublin Castle yesterday heard that genetic
services are critically under-resourced.

Head of the Rare Disease Task Force, Philip Watt, said many of the
recommendations of the National Rare Disease Plan, launched in 2014, have not
been implemented.

Mr Watt pointed out that current clinical genetics staffing levels in Ireland
are among the worst in Europe.

They are up to 80% below those recommended by the Royal College of Physicians in
London.

By way of stark illustration, in a survey of 14 European countries, Ireland came
last in terms of the number of genetic consultants per head of population, while
Northern Ireland was ranked in sixth place,  he said.

Right now, my understanding is there are several hundred families sitting on
critically-long genetics waiting lists for over 15 months.

It is estimated that the lives of more than 300,000 children and adults are
impacted by rare diseases and four out of five are thought to be genetic.

Chairwoman of the Genetic and Rare Disorders Organisation, Avril Daly, said
people with undiagnosed rare and genetic diseases are unable to benefit from new
treatments and therapies coming on-stream.

Rachel Martin, 35, from Limerick who has a rare connective tissue disorder,
called Loeys-Dietz Syndrome (LDS) was only genetically diagnosed with the
condition eight years ago. Ms Martin, a patient advocate with the Marfan
Syndrome Support Group Ireland, had to give up her job as a residential property
manager because of ongoing health problems.

She said the delays of more than 15 months was to see a geneticist   it could
take up to a year for the results of the genetic tests.

It is a long process and not everyone has that time, unfortunately,  she said.

The conference marking International Rare Diseases Day was organised by the
Genetic and Rare Disorders Organisation, the Medical Charities Research Group
and the Irish Platform for Patient Organisations, Science and Industry.

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 Landmark Digital Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              112 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                 Irish Examiner

                            January 21, 2011 Friday

Mother fears delay in rare disease plan

SECTION: IRELAND

LENGTH: 430 words


Anne Lawlor's daughter,  ine, 28, was born with a genetic deletion syndrome
called 22q11 deletion syndrome but was only diagnosed with the condition when
she was 15.

The diagnosis explained many of the difficulties  ine had been experiencing.

Ms Lawlor spoke at yesterday's European Conference on Rare Diseases that took
place at Farmleigh House in Dublin during which the first step towards the
development of a national plan for rare disease patients in Ireland was taken.

Deputy chief medical officer at the Department of Health, Dr John Devlin, who
also spoke at the conference, said the guidelines provided by the European
initiative had laid the groundwork for discussion on all the main issues
surrounding rare diseases.

The issues include centres of excellence, development of research on rare
diseases, access to therapies and treatments and patient empowerment.

"I am just afraid that after all that is said and done, a lot more is said than
done. It is not that I am particularly pessimistic about the plan but I am not
going out of here shouting 'alleluia'," said Ms Lawlor, who established a
support group for families affected by 22q11 in 2007. It started with three
families and now has 83. About 12 babies are born every year in Ireland with the
condition, caused by a deletion of a piece of chromosome 22, which results in
heart problems, developmental delay and learning difficulties.

"I went through so much with  ine that I really felt compelled to do something
for other families in the same position. I will continue to work with my
organisation to move things forward," she said.

About 157,000 people in Ireland have rare diseases that are notoriously
difficult to diagnose.

Patients are often sent on a prolonged diagnostic journey receiving
inappropriate medical interventions which can lead to further complications and
the wrong information.

Despite her reservations, Anne is delighted that Dr Devlin has been charged with
developing the national strategy and that a policy group that will include
patient group representatives will be established within the next six months.

The conference was organised by the Irish Platform for Patients' Organisations,
Science and Industry, the genetic Rare Disorders Organisation and the Medical
Research Charities and is part of a European initiative to develop a national
strategy for rare diseases.

A minute's silence was held at the conference to mark the passing on Wednesday
of Saoirse Heffernan, 5, from Keel, Co Kerry, who lost her battle with Batten's
disease, an inherited disease of the nervous system, on Wednesday.

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2011 Thomas Crosbie Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              113 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          Newcastle Herald (Australia)

                           February 26, 2011 Saturday
                                 First Edition

Strength in numbers;
FEATURE

BYLINE: FRANCES THOMPSON

SECTION: H2; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 535 words


Putting a name to Hannah Young's rare condition was only half the battle, writes
FRANCES THOMPSON. IT TOOK Bar Beach mother Leonie Young more than four years and
a visit to the United States, where she just happened to read a newspaper
article, to end the long search for answers about her child's problems. Hannah,
her first born, had the rare genetic condition Williams Syndrome.

"She wasn't meeting any milestones," Young said of Hannah's delayed development.
Beautiful things in a mother's life, such as a baby's smile, never happened for
Leonie and Hannah. Instead, Hannah's early years were a constant round of visits
to general practitioners to try to find out why the little girl failed to
thrive. "All the little things in isolation mean nothing," Leonie said. When the
Young family were in Boston on business back in the 1990s, Leonie read a
newspaper article and recognised her daughter's symptoms. By then, Hannah was
4Â½ years old. As soon as possible, Leonie took Hannah to a specialist. He saw
the telltale physical signs of the syndrome "as soon as we walked in the door,"
she said. Hannah, now 20, is one of an estimated 1.2 million Australians who
have a rare disease or condition. Monday is Rare Disease Day, a day that
Newcastle clinical geneticist Dr Tracy Dudding hopes will draw attention to the
need for a national plan to help people such as Hannah and her family and others
like them. "A missed diagnosis of these rare diseases is quite common," Dudding
said. "Many doctors may never have heard of them and parents and patients have
to become advocates for their condition. "A national plan would gather a body of
knowledge and doctors would be more likely to pick it. "Many of these people in
the past have been put into care at centres such as Stockton." Instead, Hannah
lived with her parents and five other siblings and had a "beautiful life", her
mother said. "We don't treat her any differently than the other children and we
have as normal a life as we can," Leonie said. "She is gregarious and friendly
and if you are feeling blue, she can pick it a mile off." Williams Syndrome,
which can affect one in 20,000 children, is caused by the absence of genetic
material on chromosome seven. Hannah is intellectually disabled. The condition
also causes facial characteristics, loose joints, and cardio vascular problems,
among other physical difficulties. There is no cure and while some people can
complete school and look after themselves, many, like Hannah, will need lifelong
care. Leonie Young said the family had faced significant financial strain,
especially before the problem was diagnosed. "If you don't have a diagnosis it
is difficult to access financial support," she said. "The problem is having the
disability recognised as a permanent disability, like Down syndrome." Another
burden for parents is deciding whether or not to have more children. Leonie
acknowledged the value of Hannah's school education. Through the special units
for the disabled that were integrated into the school system, Leonie and
Hannah's father, Jonathan, were able to forge links with other parents and
services. More information about rare diseases can be found at
www.rarediseaseday.org.

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ISOLATED PROBLEMS: Leonie Young and her daughters, Hannah, 20, who was
born with the rare Williams Syndrome, and Amelia, 7. - Picture by Natalie Grono

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 Newcastle Newspapers Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              114 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          The Sunday Guardian (India)

                             June 10, 2017 Saturday

'National policy for rare diseases a welcome step, challenges ahead'

LENGTH: 738  words

DATELINE: New Delhi


New Delhi, June 10 -- Experts have welcomed the government's decision to approve
the National Policy for the Treatment of Rare Diseases, the draft of which was
submitted by the Union Ministry of Health to the Delhi High Court on 25 May.
However, they feel that the expensive and prohibitive nature of the treatment
with no insurance coverage, untimely diagnosis, and delay in implementation of
the policy are among few of the challenges that need to be addressed. The policy
saw the light of day after multiple representations to the Central Government
and the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare were made since 2009 by lawyers
and organisations working for the treatment of rare diseases.

A rare disease, comprising rare tumors and genetic diseases like Gaucher
Syndrome, Hunter Syndrome and Pompe, is a health condition which has low
prevalence and affects a small number of people. Speaking to The Sunday
Guardian, experts noted that 50% of the afflicted are children-70% of whom die
aged between one and seven due to lack of effective treatment. According to
reports, at least 7 crore Indians suffer from over 14,000 rare diseases
identified worldwide.

The policy recommends an initial corpus of Rs 100 crore for the treatment of
genetic disorders, but excludes rare blood disorders like Thalassemia and
sickle-cell anemia. While some health experts have questioned the feasibility of
the allocated amount, Manjit Singh, president, Lysosomal Storage Disorders
Support Society (LSDSS), believes that the Centre to state ratio of 60:40 in the
corpus will ensure that the burden is not solely on the annual budget."The
corpus is okay to start with. Also, it's not that the government lacks funds;
the allocation and utilisation is not optimum and is misused. Many states that
surrender their unutilised funds back to the Centre need to channel them into
this," he added.

Delhi High court orders in three writ petitions in 2013 and 2016, advocated by
lawyer Ashok Aggarwal, had directed the Health Ministry to frame a national
policy for rare diseases. "The government did understand the subject, but took
no action. The centre passed the buck on the states by saying that the health is
a state subject and they should carve out funds under different health schemes
like National health Mission, leading to unnecessary delays," Singh said.

The diagnosis of rare conditions takes up to several years, in certain cases
seven years. Till recently, no proper study was done on the subject, hence
preventing timely diagnosis."For many rare diseases, no diagnostic method
exists. Lack of data on burden, morbidity and mortality of rare diseases
prevents the timely diagnosis and estimation of the treatment costs. We lose
about 100 children to these disorders every year," Singh told this newspaper.

"India has the highest mortality rate in the world. Most of the rare diseases
are not diagnosed at all, and in some of them, the child dies within 72 hours if
he is not treated," Dr Prasanna B. Shirol, founder and director, Organisation of
Rare Diseases India (ORDI), said. The policy advocates developing materials for
generating awareness in the general public, patients and healthcare providers.

The government has asked the Department of Financial services to bring in the
insurance act and make the insurance sector cover the cost of treatment of rare
diseases. Currently, no Indian insurance company is reimbursing the costs of the
treatment of these diseases, which ranges anywhere between Rs 30 lakh to Rs 3
crore."The policy has put insurance under its 'long-term' goal. Only when the
policy is gazetted, would insurance companies start covering the costs,"
Prasanna Shirol said. Interestingly, Dr V.K. Paul, head of the committee that
drafted the policy, told The Sunday Guardian that "insurance is not needed".
Advocate Ashok Aggarwal, however, claimed that the "Employee State Insurance
Corporation (ESIC) had an obligation not only under the Employee State Insurance
Act, but also 21 of the Constitution that guarantee every person a right to life
with dignity." Experts also feel that the process format suggested by the Health
Ministry may take up to two years or more, hence depriving timely treatment to
patients.

Published by HT Digital Content Services with permission from The Sunday
Guardian. For any query with respect to this article or any other content
requirement, please contact Editor at contentservices@htlive.com

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 The Sunday Guardian
                              All Rights Reserved


                              115 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                           Philippines Daily Inquirer

                              March 6, 2016 Sunday

Joyride gives ailing kids a lift

BYLINE: NiNa P. Calleja

LENGTH: 701  words


From the moment the Philippine Navy's Islander aircraft took off and flew across
CaNacao Bay on Saturday morning, the three boys aboard grinned from ear to ear,
their eyes gleaming with joy.

Twins Peter John and John Paul Parco, 19, and their younger brother Vicente
Isaac, 18, were like children, free from worries about Hunter Syndrome, a rare
birth defect that had stunted their development.

The three boys, along with 32 children suffering from rare disorders, were
treated to a fun-filled day, flying and sailing with the Philippine Navy as part
of the celebration of the 9th World Rare Disease Day on Feb. 29.

The daylong event, called Fly and Sail with Rare, was organized by the
Philippine Society for Orphan Disorders (PSOD), a nonprofit organization
supporting individuals with rare diseases, in partnership with the Philippine
Navy and groups like Photography with a Difference and Makati Camera Club.

Our purpose is to involve them and let them experience what otherwise they would
not have experienced, Cynthia Magdaraog, PSOD president, said in an interview.

Day without worries

John Chua, a commercial photographer and founder of Photography with a
Difference, said the project was aimed to give the patients a day without
worries.

We want them out of their normal routine, to enjoy life, fly on the plane and
ride the boat, Chua said.

At 5 a.m., the patients, together with their parents and guardians, hopped into
a bus for the ride to the Philippine Navy base at Sangley Point, a former US
Navy station.

First, they flew on the Islander, a 10-seater, fixed-wing aircraft that the
Philippine Navy uses for patrols in the West Philippine Sea, waters within the
Philippines' exclusive economic zone in the South China Sea.

For 10 minutes, the patients enjoyed bird's-eye views of CaNacao Bay, the body
of water off the northeastern tip of Cavite, and the skyline of Cavite City, the
provincial capital.

We will go to Scarborough Shoal, yehey! Peter John joked, referring to Panatag,
a shoal off Zambales province where Philippine and Chinese vessels faced off for
two months in 2012 and which China seized after a US-brokered end to the
standoff.

Peter John is studying computer science at Pamantasan ng Lungsod ng Pasig. His
two brothers stopped schooling after finishing high school. They are accompanied
by their mother, Angelita Obeda, a single parent.

Raising awareness

After the flight, the patients cruised CaNacao Bay aboard a Navy gunboat.

Pamela Roman, mother of Julia, 15, who has Rett Syndrome, a genetic disorder
that afflicts girls, said there was a need to raise awareness of rare diseases.

Of the 100 million Filipinos, about 5,000 are afflicted with rare diseases, also
known as orphan diseases.

They are so few. Sadly, we are underfunded while their medical needs are
expensive, Roman, a full-time mother, told the Inquirer.

Roman said some people in the government overlooked people with rare disorders,
giving priority to those with command diseases.

She bewailed the lack of awareness of rare disorders in the Philippines, even
among doctors.

At 2, Julia began to lose her speech and motor abilities, Roman said.

When Julia was confined at 5, I had to print brochures about Rett syndrome to
give away to the doctors and nurses so I didn't have to keep on saying what it
is, she said.

Roman said she wanted to treat Julia like an ordinary child. For her, she is
like her two other children, both of whom are healthy.

Rare Diseases Act

On Saturday, she brought Julia on a wheelchair to the Navy's base here to make
her enjoy the plane and boat rides with the other patients.

Magdaraog said the families of patients with rare diseases were pinning their
hopes on the proposed Rare Diseases Act that would expand the government's
universal health-care program to cover patients with rare disorders.

The measure would create an Office of Rare Diseases in the Department of Health,
encourage research and development, and provide for fiscal and regulatory
incentives for the manufacture and importation of treatments for rare disorders.

Already approved by Congress, the bill is now awaiting the signature of
President Aquino.

We hope President Aquino will sign it into law and not veto it, Magdaraog said.

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 Philippines Daily Inquirer
                              All Rights Reserved


                              116 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                  The National

                           February 16, 2017 Thursday

Genetic mutations that cause rare diseases in Arabs identified by UAE team

BYLINE: Shireena Al Nowais

LENGTH: 400  words


Shireena Al Nowais

ABU DHABI // UAE scientists have uncovered genetic mutations that are
responsible for rare diseases in Arab children.

The discovery will help with the early detection and treatment of some of the
world's most serious and rare diseases, doctors said.

Dr Mahmoud Taleb Al Ali, director of the Centre for Arab Genomic Studies (Cags),
which is affiliated to the Sheikh Hamdan bin Rashid Al Maktoum Award for Medical
Sciences, said that a joint research project between Cags and Latifa Hospital
revealed links between "12 hereditary rare diseases among Arab children and 16
new genetic mutations in 14 genes".

A study was conducted on 20 patients from the UAE, Jordan, Sudan and Yemen, and
the results published in medical journals.

"This boosts efforts in the early detection of rare genetic diseases and for
finding effective treatments. These serious disorders usually appear after
birth, can deteriorate quickly and may lead to death at an early age," Dr Al Ali
said.

One mutation is responsible for Rapson-Mendenhall syndrome - a severe insulin
resistance that can result in death as well as developmental complications.
Another gene discovered was one that "leads to Beckwith-Weidmann syndrome, a
disorder with asymmetrical overgrowth of the organs and increased risk of
cancer", said Dr Fatima Bastaki, consultant paediatrician and clinical
geneticist at Latifa Hospital.

Dr Abdul Rezzek Hamzeh, a senior scientific coordinator at Cags, said that there
were more than 8,000 rare genetic disorders worldwide caused by mutated genes.

"Previously, doctors used to diagnose patients mainly depending upon clinical
symptoms without getting down to the genetic causes of the diseases," he said.

This method of diagnosing, Dr Hamzeh said, made it difficult to apply preventive
measures, early detection and treatment.

"These results are about discovering novel mutations."

Thanks to research and these discoveries, some diseases can now be detected and
prevented at their earliest stages.

With IVF, doctors can now test for these specific mutations, and parents can
decide whether they want to go forward with implantation or not, Dr Hamzeh said.

"It used to be very frustrating for families with known hereditary diseases to
not know if their child will inherit the gene or not," he said.

"We still have a lot to do. There are still mutations that we still need to
discover."

salnuwais@thenational.ae

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 818


                     Copyright 2017 Abu Dhabi Media Company
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              117 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                      August 30, 2012 Thursday 6:30 AM EST

R.A.R.E. Project: Faircraft Records/Universal Republic Recording Artist Chris
Mann and Singer/Songwriter Katrina Parker to Perform at Global Genes | R.A.R.E
Project's Tribute to Champions of Hope Benefit

LENGTH: 598  words


New Delhi, Aug. 30 -- Global Genes | R.A.R.E. Project (www.globalgenes.org)
today announced that Faircraft Records/Universal Republic recording artist Chris
Mann and singer/songwriter Katrina Parker, both fan favorites and stars of the
second season of the NBC hit television show "The Voice," will perform at the
first annual 'RARE Tribute to Champions of Hope' benefit on September 27, 2012,
at the Balboa Bay Club & Resort in Newport Beach, CA. Tickets to the event are
available at http://globalgenes.org/2012Tribute.



Global Genes | R.A.R.E. Project is the leading non-profit organization
advocating for the roughly 30 million Americans and approximately 350 million
people worldwide who are affected by rare and genetic diseases and disorders. In
the United States, a disease is considered rare if it affects fewer than 200,000
Americans per disease. According to the National Institutes of Health (NIH),
there are nearly 7,000 such rare diseases and an estimated 95% do not have a
single approved drug treatment.

"Music is a universal language that connects us all, has the power to soothe the
soul and can play an important part in a patient's healing process," said Chris
Mann. "I am honored to be able to use my gift of music to help raise awareness
for the prevalence of rare and genetic diseases that affect millions of people
worldwide."

"Millions of people suffer from rare diseases that are misrepresented or
misunderstood by the world at large," said Katrina Parker. "These people face
unique challenges and achieve unique victories every single day. They are
fighters in the truest sense of the word. I am delighted to be part of this
benefit to help lead the way for more support, research, empathy and community."


In addition to musical performances by Chris Mann and Katrina Parker, "Grey's
Anatomy" star Jason George will join actors Nestor Serrano (Act of Valor, The
Negotiator, The Insider, Secretariat) and Meagan Tandy (Jane By Design, 90210,
CSI: NY, Dark Blue) as celebrity presenters and will introduce some of the
evening's distinguished honorees.

"I became aware of rare diseases when I was starring on a medical drama series
and one special episode dealt with childhood cancer," said Jason George. "I had
no idea that all childhood cancers are considered rare diseases and I was
floored when a number of families whose lives had been rocked by childhood
cancer reached out to me on Facebook to thank me for being part of the episode.
I have young children of my own and the "what if it was my child" question
landed hard, and ever since I've tried to support awareness for rare diseases in
any way possible."

Gracie Van Brunt, a young girl battling a rare disease called Shwachman-Diamond
Syndrome, will take the stage and perform a special song of hope that she wrote,
which chronicles her journey as a rare disease patient. Shwachman-Diamond
Syndrome is a rare congenital disorder that attacks the pancreas, making it
difficult to digest food. The disease also attacks bone marrow, stunting growth.


In addition to numerous award presentations, a special Lifetime Achievement
Award will be presented to Henri Termeer, former President and CEO of Genzyme
Corporation.

Sponsors of the "RARE Tribute to Champions of Hope" Gala and Rare and Genetic
Disease Patient Advocacy Day include: Amicus, Amylin, Alexion, Bayer, BIO,
BioMarin, Burrill & Company, Centric Health Resources, EveryLife Foundation,
Feinstein Keen Healthcare, Genzyme, Goldman Sachs, Hollencrest Capital,
Illumina, Oprhan Europe, PatientsLikeMe, Pfizer, Shire, Sigma Tau, Synageva,
Vertex, and Walgreens.

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2012 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              118 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                               Scrip Intelligence

                       August 8, 2017 Tuesday 3:08 PM GMT

Rett Syndrome Drug Could Propel Newron To Next Level In 2018

LENGTH: 1451  words


Newron Pharmaceuticals SPA will target its second drug approval in 2018 -
following on from the success of its partnered Parkinson's disease therapy
Xadago (safinamide) - but this time the company is focused on a pediatric rare
disease that could change its commercial prospects dramatically.

CEO Stefan Weber told Scrip that the company is leading research and development
of new treatments for Rett syndrome, a rare genetic disorder that affects young
girls, and expects to file its drug sarizotan in the US and Europe next year.
Weber also outlined plans for commercialization of the drug, and explained how
approval of sarizotan could make the company very commercially attractive and
supply it with a desirable US FDA priority review voucher.

Sarizotan, a serotonin 1A (5-HT1A) receptor agonist, is currently in Phase
II/III development, with topline data from Newron's pivotal STARS trial expected
in 2018. The drug is not a cure for Rett syndrome but it targets one of the most
damaging features of the disease, apnea (temporary cessation of breathing).

The company's CEO is confident the Phase III study will yield positive results
and he highlighted that after discussions with regulators, Newron has recently
added younger patients into the trial. The Sarizotan Treatment of Apneas in Rett
Syndrome (STARS) study was expanded in May this year to include Rett syndrome
patients as young as six years of age; previously the trial only included
patients aged 13 and over. Newron submitted results from juvenile toxicology
studies to the FDA for the amendment of the STARS trial. The company is also
submitting this amendment to health authorities in other countries.

Following this change in the STARS trial the company now plans to target a label
for sarizotan that covers all patient age groups. Weber noted that "the
inclusion of the younger patients in the study, and assurance from the FDA that
we should get a label for the complete population, means there is huge promise
that this drug might not only improve the duration of apnea but also, to a
certain extent, slow down damage to the brain." Weber hopes that earlier use of
sarizotan will help to prevent brain damage that is caused by restriction of
oxygen in patients with prolonged apnea.

The primary endpoint for the STARS study is reduction in episodes of clinically
significant apneas (>10 sec) during waking time by 20%. During this six-month
study, patients will receive treatment with daily doses of 10mg and 20mg of
sarizotan or placebo.

Italy-based Newron expects to market sarizotan itself in the US and Europe, if
the drug is approved by regulatory authorities. Weber said that Rett syndrome is
the "perfect indication for a small- to medium-sized company to do
commercialization on its own." The company plans to target sarizotan to around
20,000 to 30,000 Rett syndrome patients in the US and Europe combined. He said
that should the results of the STARS trial be positive, Newron is prepared to
"rapidly expand" to accommodate commercialization of sarizotan.

PRV Potential

If sarizotan is approved in the US for Rett syndrome in all age groups, Newron
will be eligible for a priority review voucher as the product would be indicated
for a pediatric rare disease. Weber noted Newron could use a voucher to speed up
regulatory proceedings for its other clinical-stage compound evenamide, which is
in Phase II development as an add-on treatment for patients with schizophrenia
that are resistant to prescribed therapies. However, he said the group would
likely look to sell or trade the PRV.

"The priority review voucher brings with it the promise that a submission will
be reviewed in six months rather than 12 months," Weber said, adding that while
evenamide will still be two or three years away from review, "the value for
Newron is that a voucher can be transferred to other parties."

PRVs have previously been sold by biotech and pharma companies for huge sums of
money. BioMarin Pharmaceutical Inc. sold its first PRV to Sanofi for $67m; the
French big pharma successfully used the fast-track device to speed up approval
of cholesterol drug Praluent (alirocumab), which entered the US market in 2015.
Sarepta Therapeutics Inc. sold its voucher from the approval of Exondys 51 to
Gilead Sciences Inc. for $125m. Setting a precedent though for huge price tags
on PRVs, Retrophin Inc. peddled its voucher to Sanofi for $245m in May 2015; in
Feb. 2016 Sanofi redeemed the PRV to support its NDA for new type 2 diabetes
drug, LixiLan. The most recent PRV deal saw United Therapeutics Corp. up the
stakes again when it sold its voucher to AbbVie Inc. for a whopping $350m.

"When sarizotan comes up for review and is hopefully approved, we should get a
voucher that could be used to get a nice cash payment," Weber said.

Approximately 10 rare pediatric disease vouchers have been granted so far by the
FDA, many of these are yet to be redeemed.

M&A Opportunity

An approved rare disease therapy in a vacant market and an unused PRV would be
likely to put the spotlight on Newron as a potential biotech takeover target in
2018. However, Weber said his long-term strategy for the business does not
include being acquired. "We never plan to be acquired but that is part of life
in biotech. It might happen but it is not part of our strategy," he said.

By 2019, Weber said he wants Newron to be on the market with sarizotan, selling
the drug in the US and Europe itself, and to be ready to read out positive data
for evenamide - a potential blockbuster product.

"With that setup, if it works out, we are a sustainable commercial business with
the power to attract additional compounds in the CNS space," Weber said.

Little Rivalry In Rett Syndrome

There are no approved treatments for Rett syndrome and Weber highlighted that
Newron is the first company to run a pivotal study in this disease; "no one else
has made it to this stage," he said.

If sarizotan is successfully approved by regulators the drug will enter a vacant
market with huge unmet need, despite the number of patients in this rare disease
setting being limited.

Almost all cases of Rett syndrome are caused by a mutation in the MECP2 gene,
which is found on the X chromosome (one of the sex chromosomes). The MECP2 gene
contains instructions for producing a protein that is needed for brain
development. The gene abnormality prevents nerve cells in the brain from working
properly.

"Competition does exist in Rett syndrome but others are at much earlier stages
than we are," Newron's chief exec said. There are few compounds in the clinic
targeting Rett syndrome, a condition that affects about one in 12,000 girls born
each year and is only rarely seen in males. Newron is the most advanced company
in this space, followed by the similarly named Neuren Pharmaceuticals Ltd.,
Edison Pharmaceuticals Inc. and Orphelia Pharma - all of which have drugs in
Phase II.

Meanwhile, Eloxx Pharmaceuticals Ltd. has an RNA product in Phase I, and there
are a number of companies with preclinical candidates being tested in Rett
syndrome.

Despite Neuren being the closest competitor to sarizotan, Weber noted that the
Australian company is focused on the motoneuron aspects of the disease, whereas
his company is targeting the respiratory issues seen in Rett syndrome.

"We are about two years ahead of Neuren in development but we look forward to
seeing if they can offer additional benefits to patients," Weber said. All other
therapies in the pipeline for Rett syndrome are at least four to five years
behind sarizotan in development.

Still, none of the treatments currently in the clinic are aiming to cure Rett
syndrome. Weber said gene therapy is the most likely option to be able to treat
the cause of this condition. A gene therapy option for Rett syndrome is still
decades away from the market though.

"There is a lot research going on now in Rett syndrome and that is very good,"
Weber said. "One of the positive effects of our work is that people start
talking about this rare disease."

Economic Burden Study To Back Pricing

Alongside clinical trials in Rett syndrome, Newron is conducting a burden of
disease study that includes more than 750 patients and 250 healthcare
professionals. It will use these results to help measure the economic and social
burden of the disease - something that hasn't been done by a pharma company
before in this space.

Weber said Newron will use evidence from its burden of disease study to
negotiate a price for its drug post-approval. "We want to have sufficient
support and evidence of how much it should cost and why our drug should be a
certain price. We want to have objective evidence ready of what the value of our
treatment is," he said.

By Lucie Ellis

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SC


                             Copyright 2017 Informa
                              All Rights Reserved


                              119 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                   Bluefield Daily Telegraph (West Virginia)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                             April 7, 2015 Tuesday

Local woman is working to raise awareness about Devic's syndrome

BYLINE: Blake Stowers, Bluefield Daily Telegraph, W.Va.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 347 words


April 07--PRINCETON -- Following five spinal taps, a local woman is working to
raise awareness about a rare disease that others may be battling without knowing
it.

Devic's syndrome is an autoimmune disease that attacks the nervous system. "It
caused me to become paralyzed and blind," Keisha Smith said. "I want to educate
people on devic's syndrome."

Smith has been blind in her right eye since the age of six and blind in her left
eye since the age of nine. "The devic's completely attacked my optic nerve and
there's no fixing it," Smith said.

According to Smith, she is the first person in West Virginia to have the disease
since 1978.

The symptoms for the rare disease are headaches, nerve pain, and loss of vision,
neck and back pain, loss of the use of arms and or legs. People with the disease
also experience problems with their bowels and bladder. "There's a few more
(symptoms)," Smith said.

Smith said the disease has paralyzed her nine times. "Once from the neck down,
eight times from the waist down," Smith said.

Devic's syndrome can also eat the myelin sheaths off your nerves. "When it eats
the myelin sheaths off your nerves it feels like you're on fire because the
nerves are not coated," Smith said. "Nobody can touch you. It's very painful to
lay down. There's no coating on your nerves."

Smith has dreams of opening up her own store. "I want to open a vegan all
natural friendly store. I want to be a part of the Princeton downtown
renovation," Smith said.

Citizens can help support Keisha's dream at http://www.gofundme.com/parij0

Smith fought back tears as she reflected on her struggles. "All I'm trying to do
is live my life. It's really hard to be somebody like me around here, because I
don't have my vision," Smith said. "All I want to do is live my life. I want to
be the girl who goes to school and opens her store."

Smith is 19 years old.

-- Contact Blake Stowers at bstowers@bdtonline.com

___ (c)2015 the Bluefield Daily Telegraph (Bluefield, W.Va.) Visit the Bluefield
Daily Telegraph (Bluefield, W.Va.) at bdtonline.com Distributed by Tribune
Content Agency, LLC

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20150407-WF-Local-woman-is-working-to-raise-awareness-about-Devic-s-
syndrome-0407-20150407

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WF


                    Copyright 2015 Bluefield Daily Telegraph


                              120 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                             Wagga Daily Advertiser

                          February 22, 2017 Wednesday
                                 Print Edition

Diagnosis forces Norma to lose home

BYLINE: Rochelle Brown

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 244 words


When Wagga's Norma Judd started suffering spasms in her feet, she was scared out
of her mind.

The spasms gradually spread from her feet to the top of her waist as she
struggled with basic movement on a day-to-day basis.

Ms Judd put the pains down to cramps and doctors offered her little explanation
or solution for her pain.

She was sent to a specialist in Sydney after a year of suffering and was
diagnosed with stiff person syndrome.

"They started off as spasms and then I would get stiff and couldn't walk at all
for about 30 minutes at a time," Ms Judd said.

"It was so scary not being able to walk properly - if I sat I couldn't stand up,
I couldn't drive, couldn't do anything."

Ms Judd said the pain and limited movement caused her to give up her five acre
property at San Isidore and move to Glenfield Park.

While Ms Judd has since found successful treatment, the rare disease is
incurable, and still causes her stiffness each morning.

Ms Judd now wants to use her experience to help others and start a support group
in Wagga for people suffering from rare diseases.

"I believe I'm the only person with stiff person syndrome in the area but it
would be nice to connect with other people who have a rare disease," Ms Judd
said.

"It's amazing how much the treatment has helped me but other people aren't so
lucky.

"People suffering often have the same problems and need some support."

She hoped to meet with anyone interested on Rare Diseases Australia Day on
February 28.

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2017 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              121 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                    The News

                             August 11, 2017 Friday

Woman from Park Gate inspired to help people with rare diseases

BYLINE: Ellie Pilmoor

LENGTH: 394  words


WHEN Eloise Appleby heard a woman give an honest description of life with a rare
disease, she was inspired to help others.

The 51-year-old was diagnosed with breast cancer two years ago and benefitted
from all the support and research into the illness.

But when she saw a video of Darcey Kelly- on Facebook on Rare Diseases Day -
talking about living with Ehlers-Danlos Syndrome and the impact it had on her
life, Eloise wanted to help people with rare conditions to get the same support
she did for her cancer.

And seeing Darcey talk openly about her experience inspired Eloise to do a 100km
walk for Ehlers-Danlos Syndrome which affects the connective tissue in the body.

She said: I was on leave for six weeks from work to recover from the operation
for my cancer. It was Lent so I had this idea of doing a random act of kindness.

I looked at the Ehlers-Danlos Support UK website and decided to spend my time
off training for a 100km fundraising walk from London to Brighton.'

Eloise, from Park Gate, completed the walk with her two nephews Tai Bucks and
Sam March. She added: I took them as insurance, to carry me over the finish
line. But I think they were surprised by my stamina.'

Through the walk Eloise raised just over £7,000 which was more than she
expected.

But wanting to help others did not stop with her fundraising.

Eloise has recently become the co-ordinator for a support group for people with
Ehlers-Danlos Syndrome which in severe cases causes joints dislocating, organs
tearing, curvature of the spine and delayed healing of wounds.

She added: It's a terrible, life-limiting condition which results in a daily
struggle - and sadly often early death.

Yet the people like Darcey who have it are often incredibly determined to live
as normally as they can.

I can relate to that from my time having chemotherapy when I had breast cancer.
I wanted to avoid at all costs being the "cancer girl".'

Eloise will take over volunteer area co-ordinator for Ehlers-Danlos Support UK
from Charlotte Lee, from Knowle.

She will be organising support meetings for anyone affected by the condition,
speaking up for the Ehlers-Danlos community in the Solent area and raising cash.

The next meeting is at the community learning centre at Brookfield Community
School, in Sarisbury Green, between 6.30pm and 8.30pm on August 23.

For more details email southamptonedsuk@gmail.com

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: JPNS


                       Copyright 2017 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved


                              122 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 January 13, 2003 Monday Five Star Lift Edition
                              Correction Appended

HERCULANEUM FAMILY WILL SPEAK TO FDA ABOUT RARE DISEASE

BYLINE: Tim Rowden Of The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: JEFFERSON COUNTY POST; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 560 words


* Sean Merrell has responded to an experimental enzyme treatment. His brother,
Cody, hopes for treatment also.

Brothers Sean and Cody Merrell of Herculaneum will travel to Washington this
week to lobby for government approval of an enzyme treatment that could save
their lives.

A rare disease shared by Sean, 10, and Cody, 8, could kill them within a decade.
But the experimental drug treatment offers hope that their lives could return to
a semblance of normalcy.

The brothers were diagnosed in July 2002 with Hurler-Scheie syndrome, one of a
variety of disorders known as MPS-I. Hurler-Scheie syndrome is a rare genetic
disorder that affects about one in every 115,000 births.

The brothers' bodies lack an enzyme needed to break down waste materials in the
blood. What is left behind forms a gel-like substance that attaches itself to
joints and vital organs and causes stiffening of the joints, corneal clouding,
heart-valve failure, enlargement of the liver, blindness and, in the most severe
cases, mental retardation preceding death.

Those affected with the disorder rarely live beyond their mid-20s.

The boys' sister, Amber, 3, is a carrier but does not have the disorder.

Two years ago, Sean began an experimental treatment protocol aimed at
controlling the symptoms and halting the progress of the disease.

Genzyme General, a Massachusetts-based company, in conjunction with Bio-Marin
Pharmaceutical Inc. of California, has been testing an enzyme-replacement
therapy known as Aldurazyme, which has shown signs of slowing the progress of
the disorder in clinical trials.

Cody could not take part in the trial because he was too young.

As a result, the boys' parents, Eric and Vicki Merrell, deal daily with a
heartbreaking division. Whereas Sean has shown improvement during the treatment,
Cody has grown progressively worse.

They want the Food and Drug Administration to approve the therapy so Cody can
take part in the treatment as well.

Although Sean still has joint stiffness and other skeletal symptoms, his liver
and spleen have returned to normal size and function. One of the things the
enzyme therapy does is attack and break up waste deposits in the organs.

Cody's organs have become so bloated that his parents worry that the function of
his liver and spleen soon could be affected.

"That's one of the reasons we want to get this drug approved so we can get Cody
treated," Eric Merrell says.

The family will have five minutes to make the case Wednesday before an FDA
advisory committee that is reviewing the research on Aldurazyme.

The Merrells were invited to take part in the hearing by the National MP S
Society and the National Association for Rare Disorders because of their unique
situation. They will be joined by physicians and other families from throughout
the nation.

Although the FDA doesn't have to follow the committee's recommendations, the
hearing is "a major hurdle" toward getting the treatment approved, says Abbey
Meyers, president of the organization for rare disorders.

"It's an opportunity for the manufacturer to present their data" and "for the
patients to stand up and say what they want," Meyers said. "It's important for
the advisory committee to hear what the patients want and what their experience
has been."

Meyers said the FDA was expected to make a decision by this spring.

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: Reporter Tim Rowden:; E-mail: trowden@post-dispatch.com; Phone:
636-931-1017

CORRECTION-DATE: October 19, 2003

CORRECTION: Sean and Cody Merrell, two brothers from Herculaneum, were diagnosed
with Hurler-Scheie syndrome, a rare and often fatal genetic disorder, in July
2000. This story gave the wrong year for the diagnosis.


TYPE: PROFILE; SEAN MERRELL , CODY MERRELL; HURLER-SCHEIE SYNDROME VICTIMS;
ENZYME-REPLACEMENT TREATMENT

                  Copyright 2003 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              123 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                       Wilts and Gloucestershire Standard

                             March 20, 2017 Monday

Malmesbury resident with rare disease says research funding must increase to
ensure people are correctly diagnosed

BYLINE: Callum Chaplin

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 472 words


A RESIDENT in Malmesbury is hoping to raise awareness of her rare and
debilitating disease.

Dr Lisa Tweedie, 49, was diagnosed with Ehlers Danlos Syndrome (EDS) at the age
of 40, a disease which causes problems with collagen and therefore affects all
parts of the body.

It includes a complex group of rare disorders caused by changes in genes that
weaken the connective tissues.

Lisa subsequently lives with chronic muscle pain around her joints as they are
doing the work of ligaments.

As a result, she has frequently collapsed, causing multiple broken bones and
concussions over the years that have left her bed-ridden for months at a time.

Lisa, who currently has four medical consultants, says EDS is complex and often
undetected and undiagnosed due to lack of awareness, both from sufferers and
doctors.

"It's a condition which there really isn't enough public information about," she
said.

"I self-diagnosed the first time but it was hard to get the diagnosis from a
doctor.

"First doctor I saw about it laughed at me, then the second referred me to Bath
and I got diagnosed along with a second opinion."

Around one in 20,000 are diagnosed with EDS in the UK, while the figure is about
one in 10,000 in the USA. It is thought prevalence is actually around one in
5000, meaning a significant proportion of people in the UK are going
undiagnosed.

Lisa says this is a particular issue for women, as having the disease can bring
about complications during childbirth.

"It's really dangerous to have a pregnancy and not realise you have the
disease," she said.

"I had three, probably quite dangerous, deliveries as result, without knowing."

Lisa wrote to her local MP, James Gray, urging him to speak out about the
disease.

He responded saying he welcomed the government's Strategy for Rare Diseases,
which he says commits to ensuring people living with a rare disease have access
to "the best evidence-based care and treatment".

Lisa said she was pleased with the detail of his response.

She also welcomed the Department of Health's response to a petition she signed,
calling for extra funding into EDS research and awareness raising.

The department's statement said: "The complexity of the syndrome and the
difficulty in diagnosing the milder forms of the condition means that an
accurate estimate of the number of affected individuals is difficult.

"The government is committed to improving the lives of patients and their
families affected by rare diseases including EDS.

"The UK continues to be at the forefront of research into rare diseases and
100,000 Genomes Project is actively accelerating progress in the understanding
of the genetic basis of rare diseases.

"The National Institute of Health Research (NIHR) has significantly invested in
rare diseases research and funds a variety of initiatives to support the
development of new therapies."

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2017 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              124 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            January 13, 2015 Tuesday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

With no low-hanging fruit, pharma turns to new crop of medicines;
Andrew Clark looks at the drugs maker and the growth industry that prompted
Shire to splash out $5.2bn

BYLINE: Andrew Clark

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 40

LENGTH: 569 words


On a good day, Liz Glenister, a former teacher from London, can live her life
relatively normally. On a bad day, a rare, chronic condition affecting her
calcium levels means that she can barely walk.

"The symptoms can be really awful," she says, listing anxiety, cramps, dizziness
and muscular pain. "I've been unable to walk upstairs, let alone go down the
street."

Ms Glenister, 60, suffers from a disorder called hypoparathyroidism, which
inhibits the body's ability to produce calcium. It affects about 50,000 people
in Europe and doctors treat it crudely by feeding patients up to 15 calcium
tablets a day - which, in the words of one sufferer, makes your gut feel "like a
cement mixer".

Yet there is hope on the horizon: NPS Pharmaceuticals, an American company being
bought by Shire for $5.2 billion, has developed a hormone-based medicine that
kickstarts the body's calcium generation. It is awaiting approval from the US
Food and Drug Administration and is keenly awaited by patients.

Shire's purchase of NPS taps into an increasingly popular field for the pharma
industry - rare diseases, or ailments that affect fewer than five out of every
10,000 people. Invest-ment has soared: Deutsche Bank has estimated that the
category is worth $24 billion in sales, with rare disease medicines set to
double to 8 per cent of all global drugs sales by 2020.

According to Alastair Kent, the chairman of Rare Disease UK, a patients' support
group: "Large sections of the pharma industry used to take the view that rare
was synonymous with 'not very many affected' and was therefore not very
important. That's changed.

"The traditional approach to drug development, where you look for a blockbuster
- a small molecule targetting a large population - has run its course. There
aren't many lowhanging fruit left there."

The FDA approved 33 new medicines for rare diseases in 2013. Shire alone has
drugs for Hunter syndrome, Fabry disease, Gaucher disease and hereditary
angioedema, all rare genetic ailments. Sanofi, the French multinational, is
tackling Pompe disease, which causes progressive muscle weakness in babies,
while GLAXOSMITHKLINE is pumping funds into treating Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome,
an immune deficiency suffered by barely four in a million people.

Chris Stirling, the head of life sciences at KPMG, says: "The whole direction of
this industry is personalised medicine - that means moving towards smaller
cohorts of patients."

Drugs for rare diseases are hugely expensive, however. Shire charges more than
£100,000 per patient, per year for its treatments, arguing that to recoup the
cost of research in a small population, prices must be high.

Not everybody feels that such sums are sustainable as the National Health
Service and other European authorities face tough budgetary choices. A recent
study by MEDACorp, an American consultancy, found that 94 per cent of US health
insurers were "concerned" about the high price of drugs for unusual diseases.

"The price of innovative medicines is putting an enormous burden of pressure on
healchare systems around the world," Mr Stirling says. "It's probably not
sustainable, but it's very difficult to see how the model will evolve."

Big opportunity

1 in 17

People will be affected by a rare disease at some point in their life

6,000

Recognised rare diseases

30%

Proportion of patients with rare diseases who die by age of five

452

Medicines in development for rare illnesses

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Liz Glenister: hope is on the horizon for a new treatment

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2015 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              125 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                         The Dispatch, Lexington, N.C.

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                            February 1, 2016 Monday

Rare disease brings strain to Lexington family

BYLINE: Mat Batts, The Dispatch, Lexington, N.C.

SECTION: LIFESTYLE

LENGTH: 554 words


Feb. 01--Cooper Rolph, your typical bubbly toddler, enjoys his toys and games
just as much as any child. But in Cooper's case, a rare condition known as
Kostmann's syndrome has marred the past few months of his life.

Known medically as congenital neutropenia and named after one of the first
doctors to study its effects, Kostmann's syndrome refers to an insufficiency of
bone marrow and the white blood cells known as neutrophils, which serve as an
essential part of the immune system.

As a 6-month-old infant, Cooper developed a large mass in his neck. His parents,
Scott and Jennifer Rolph, consulted doctors immediately, and they later found
the mass to be an infected thyroglossal duct cyst. But in the treatment of the
cyst, doctors noticed Cooper's depleted white blood cell count and knew
immediately something more serious was at work.

A disease doctors have told the Rolphs is one-in-a-million rare has the parents
struggling for answers and a way to pay for medical costs.

Cooper is being treated at Brenner Children's Hospital in Winston-Salem and
meets weekly with an independent hematologist.

"I'm the only one working," Scott Rolph said, noting his wife must keep a
constant eye on Cooper during the day. "To take care of the bills and everything
he needs, too, it breaks me every week."

The Rolphs have set up a GoFundMe account to raise money for initial testing
Cooper will need to undergo before doctors can determine a method of treatment.
The testing, they estimate, could cost more than $3,000, a figure their Medicaid
insurance won't cover.

The family has also begun selling rare disease ribbons in partnership with
Global Genes, a patient advocacy group that raises awareness for rare diseases
through the symbol of hope.

"It kills me thinking about it every day while I'm at work," Scott Rolph said.

Rolph works as a heavy machine operator for Dragados-USA in Kernersville and
said knowing the limitations of his son is the most challenging part.

Because of Cooper's inability to fight everyday bacteria and infection, the
Rolphs must ensure he doesn't experience any cuts or abrasions and doesn't
contact anyone who might be carrying a contagious illness. Cooper is extremely
limited in his contact with other children and can't attend day care or school
until his condition is treated.

The family's ultimate goal is one day Cooper might be able to experience the
normal joys of childhood, but they admit a lot of questions remain regarding his
treatment.

"To be able to play outside without worrying about simple boy cuts," Jennifer
Rolph said about her hopes for the future. "He can't even get boy cuts."

Bone marrow transplants remain the most likely option, but at just 19 months,
doctors are wary of the necessary chemotherapy until Cooper is a bit older.

Scott and Jennifer Rolph say if the fundraising is successful, money not used by
the family for testing and treatment of Cooper's illness will be donated to
Brenner Children's Hospital and Global Genes.

Anyone wishing to donate to Cooper's fund can do so at
www.gofundme.com/cooperrolph.

Mat Batts can be reached at (336) 249-3981, ext. 227, or at
mat.batts@the-dispatch.com Follow Mat on Twitter: @LexDispatchMB

___ (c)2016 The Dispatch, Lexington, N.C. Visit The Dispatch, Lexington, N.C. at
www.the-dispatch.com Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20160201-1LN-Rare-disease
-brings-strain-to-Lexington-family-0201-20160201

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1LN


                  Copyright 2016 The Dispatch, Lexington, N.C.


                              126 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                      Penrith Press (Tuesday) (Australia)

                            August 14, 2007 Tuesday

Friends rally as rare disease leaves aid worker Lynn devastated Taking an angel
under their wing

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 437  words


Friends rally as rare disease leaves aid worker Lynn devastated

SUSAC'S

SYNDROME * WHAT: extremely rare neurological disorder

* CAUSE: immune system attacking the small blood vessels serving the brain,
retina and snail-like tube which forms the inner ear.

* RARITY: only 200 sufferers in the world

SHE'S been an angel of mercy to others in dire need for years. Now Lynn O'Brien
urgently needs help herself.

She contracted the extremely rare neurological disorder Susac's syndrome while
working in Indonesia, and has been at Nepean Hospital for more than three
months.

The National Organisation for Rare Disorders, America, website, states Susac's
syndrome usually corrects itself but can take up to five years. ''I can't accept
that yet,'' she said.

Ms O'Brien began teaching English and computer studies in Jakarta.

''Years ago I was in Indonesia and was overwhelmed by the need, and I promised
myself I would never again be overwhelmed by need,'' she said. ''I had to do
something to help, even if I could only work with one person at a time.''

Ms O'Brien took on other roles at the non-government Christian House of Love
Foundation orphanage in Surabaya, Indonesia.

She has also worked with indigenous tribes, helped those devastated by the
deadly tsunami which ravaged Banda Aceh and offered aid in earthquake and
volcano zones.

''So who knows what I got when I was there'' along with the dengue hemorrhagic
fever she contracted about 12 months before becoming sick with Susac's.

The illness is bad enough, but while she was critically ill her Gosford home was
sold to cover debt, and the car and bank card she left in Indonesia taken.

''I don't have anything,'' she said. ''I only brought one suitcase with me from
Indonesia because I was going back. I feel like I don't belong anywhere.''

Ms O'Brien is still trying to get a Centrelink pension, but the unknown nature
and longevity of her illness has made it difficult.

When she was told last week she might be transferred to Katoomba or Auburn
hospital, she cried for the first time.

''That's too much'' it would be too far for family and friends to visit, she
said.

She preferred Springwood Hospital but dreaded being put into hostel care.

''I'm not old enough it's made for 70-year-olds, but I don't have anywhere else
to go,'' she said.

''I have gone from having a wonderful life and being in control to being totally
at the mercy of nurses, doctors and social workers.''

Friend Iris Muller said she would like Ms O'Brien to have her own place with
24-hour care.

* Ms O'Brien's friends have established a trust fund to help her. Donate to
Commonwealth Bank account number 259710611415.

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: PPG


                   Copyright 2007 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              127 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                JAGRAN Cityplus

                                 March 1, 2012

Spotlight on rare disease

LENGTH: 592  words


As February 29 is observed as 'Rare Disease Day' across the globe, let's know
about one barely known heart disease 'Tetralogy of Fallot', which has so far
affected almost 5,40,000 people in India.

We often read about health problems which are widespread and are affecting a
large number of people, but we hardly get any information on diseases which are
rare and not so known. One such critical ailment in the category of 'Rare
Diseases in India' is Tetralogy of Fallot (TOF). It is a congenital heart defect
in children in which there is a hole in the heart and there is narrowing of the
artery taking blue blood to the lungs.

Dr. Ashish Katewa, Consultant Paediatric Cardiac Surgery, Fortis Escorts Heart
Institute, Delhi highlights, "It's the commonest congenital cyanotic heart
disease in children. The incidence is five in every 10,000 live births. Blue
discoloration of the lips and nails is the most prominent feature of TOF."

Symptoms

Dr. H K Chopra, Consultant, Cardiology, Moolchand Heart Hospital, New Delhi
highlights the symptoms of TOF.

Clubbing of fingertips and nails (large and bulb-like appearance).

Lose consciousness.

Heart murmurs (abnormal changes in the heart sounds).

Mostly irritable and fussy.

Poor appetite and problems in putting on weight.

Feeling tired all time.

Not respond to a parent's voice or touch.

Causes

The main cause of this congenital heart defect is still not known but there are
various possible contributing factors associated. Dr HK Chopra highlights the
conditions and factors during pregnancy that increase the risk of TOF in their
infants such as:

German measles (rubella) and some other viral illnesses.

Poor nutrition.

Overuse of alcohol.

Late pregnancy increases risk of this disease in baby (being older than 40).

Diabetes.

Heredity may play a role in this heart defect. An adult with TOF may have an
increased chance of having a baby with this defect. Children with genetic
disorders, such as Down syndrome and DiGeorge syndrome, often have congenital
heart defects, including TOF.

Diagnosis

Dr. Katewa shares, "The diagnosis of TOF is confirmed by Echocardiography. It is
similar to the ultrasound of the heart and can be performed by a cardiologist.
There are close to 100 centres in India, which can treat TOF.

Treatment

Navaneetham from Rare Disease India says, "It's a very complicated disease but
in many cases surgical interventions largely fixes the condition." Dr Katewa
also adds, "Most of the children with the disease do not survive without
surgery. Once a successful surgery is performed, the child is expected to live a
normal life." The cost of the treatment varies upon the extent of open heart
surgery required.

So let's be fare to people suffering from rare diseases and help spread
awareness to support them.

Manage TOF spells

Learn to manage TOF spells by:

Bringing the infant's knees up tight against his or her chest (this is called
the knee-chest position) or have the child squat down, this will increase blood
flow to the lungs.

Try to calm the child.

Activity restrictions: Some children may need to limit certain types of
exercises and activities. It is important to discuss the same with the doctor in
details.

Keep a brief note of your child's diagnosis, medications, surgeries and their
dates, and your cardiologist's name and number handy.

Shocking

Experts estimate suggests that in India there are about 6000 to 8000 rare
diseases and over 3.3 crore patients are suffering from it. Most of the rare
diseases are genetic in nature and unfortunately majority of them don't have any
cure.

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2012 MMI online Ltd., distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              128 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                       Wilts and Gloucestershire Standard

                             March 20, 2017 Monday

Malmesbury resident urges government to improve funding for research into rare
diseases

BYLINE: Callum Chaplin

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 472 words


A RESIDENT in Malmesbury is hoping to raise awareness of her rare and
debilitating disease.

Dr Lisa Tweedie, 49, was diagnosed with Ehlers Danlos Syndrome (EDS) at the age
of 40, a disease which causes problems with collagen and therefore affects all
parts of the body.

It includes a complex group of rare disorders caused by changes in genes that
weaken the connective tissues.

Lisa subsequently lives with chronic muscle pain around her joints as they are
doing the work of ligaments.

As a result, she has frequently collapsed, causing multiple broken bones and
concussions over the years that have left her bed-ridden for months at a time.

Lisa, who currently has four medical consultants, says EDS is complex and often
undetected and undiagnosed due to lack of awareness, both from sufferers and
doctors.

"It's a condition which there really isn't enough public information about," she
said.

"I self-diagnosed the first time but it was hard to get the diagnosis from a
doctor.

"First doctor I saw about it laughed at me, then the second referred me to Bath
and I got diagnosed along with a second opinion."

Around one in 20,000 are diagnosed with EDS in the UK, while the figure is about
one in 10,000 in the USA. It is thought prevalence is actually around one in
5000, meaning a significant proportion of people in the UK are going
undiagnosed.

Lisa says this is a particular issue for women, as having the disease can bring
about complications during childbirth.

"It's really dangerous to have a pregnancy and not realise you have the
disease," she said.

"I had three, probably quite dangerous, deliveries as result, without knowing."

Lisa wrote to her local MP, James Gray, urging him to speak out about the
disease.

He responded saying he welcomed the government's Strategy for Rare Diseases,
which he says commits to ensuring people living with a rare disease have access
to "the best evidence-based care and treatment".

Lisa said she was pleased with the detail of his response.

She also welcomed the Department of Health's response to a petition she signed,
calling for extra funding into EDS research and awareness raising.

The department's statement said: "The complexity of the syndrome and the
difficulty in diagnosing the milder forms of the condition means that an
accurate estimate of the number of affected individuals is difficult.

"The government is committed to improving the lives of patients and their
families affected by rare diseases including EDS.

"The UK continues to be at the forefront of research into rare diseases and
100,000 Genomes Project is actively accelerating progress in the understanding
of the genetic basis of rare diseases.

"The National Institute of Health Research (NIHR) has significantly invested in
rare diseases research and funds a variety of initiatives to support the
development of new therapies."

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2017 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              129 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                   The Star Phoenix (Saskatoon, Saskatchewan)

                            August 13, 2013 Tuesday
                                 Early Edition

Alberta will fund girl's treatment

BYLINE: Sarah O'Donnell, Postmedia News

SECTION: CANADA; Pg. A9

LENGTH: 729 words

DATELINE: EDMONTON


St. Albert father Dane Sadownyk picked up his three-year-old daughter Aleena and
"just hugged her" Monday morning when the family learned the Alberta government
will fund a crucial treatment for her rare medical condition.

"It was an extremely emotional moment," Sadownyk said. "I was so elated. It felt
like I could come up for a breath of air. That's what it felt like, that I can
breathe again."

Aleena's family and their supporters have been lobbying Alberta Health for a
month to approve treatment for Maroteaux-Lamy Syndrome, a rare disease that
means she lacks glycosaminoglycan, an enzyme that helps break down cellular
waste.

Instead, the waste builds up, restricting movements, damaging organs and
clouding eyesight, among other serious health complications. Without treatment,
sufferers see their life expectancy cut short. Naglazyme, a synthetic enzyme
approved in the U.S. but not Canada, can help break down that cellular buildup.

Though not a cure, weekly infusions could help prevent Aleena's symptoms from
getting worse, the family's supporters say. Four other provinces have agreed to
fund the treatment for seven children with the syndrome - also known as
mucopolysaccharidosis type VI or MPS VI - and Aleena's family was pushing
Alberta to quickly approve the expensive but critical treatment, which is
expected to initially cost about $300,000 a year.

Sadownyk, who was in Connecticut Monday with his family attending a conference
on MPS VI when they heard the news, said they are feeling immense relief. Aleena
was diagnosed with MPS VI in April.

"Today is definitely a day we are joyful for her and look forward to the
future," he said.

Andrew McFayden, director of the Isaac Foundation, went through a similar
struggle in Ontario when his son Isaac was diagnosed with MPS VI as a toddler
and was the first to receive treatment in Canada. He stepped in to assist the
Sadownyks with their case and said he shared their feeling of elation Monday.

But McFayden also said the happiness is mixed with frustration that it took so
long and that the family's supporters felt they had to mount a public campaign
with the support of MLAs such as Wildrose health critic Heather Forsyth after
the family's original funding application through the Alberta Rare Disease
Program was denied.

"We've gone through this numerous times," Mc-Fayden said. "To me, that's a big
problem there still hasn't been a process put in place by Health Canada for
provinces to deal with funding these rare diseases." Health Minister Fred Horne
said Monday he signed off on the funding for Aleena's treatment through
Alberta's Short Term Evaluative Drug Therapy program, instead of the Rare
Disease program, because Aleena's case involves a drug not licensed for sale in
Canada.

Horne said he weighed several factors, including the clinical evidence, the
rarity of the disease, affordability of the drug and the best interest of the
patient. Public pressure was not one of those factors, he said.

"I think Albertans would expect their minister and government to make these
decisions based on evidence and looking at each case individually," Horne said.
"I'm pleased it's able to be a positive outcome in this particular case. But
these kinds of situations are becoming more common in Canada and it's because we
have more drugs coming out every day and more and more of these drugs are geared
to rare diseases."

Horne said he plans to talk about the need for an orphan drug program - a term
used to describe medications for rare diseases - with other provincial health
ministers and federal Health Minister Rona Ambrose.

"It's an issue where we really need to collaborate," Horne said. "There are only
going to be more of these situations in the future."

Forsyth, MLA for Calgary-Fish Creek, said Alberta Health must work to make the
provincial system easier to navigate for families who suddenly find themselves
seeking help with a rare condition.

"The whole thing is just convoluted," said Forsyth, who said she was overwhelmed
to hear Aleena will receive treatment. "I think they have to simplify things and
make it easier for the public to understand."

NDP health critic Dave Eggen said Alberta Health also needs to speed up the
process.

"I'm glad something moved," the Edmonton-Calder MLA said. "But in the future I
don't want to see people's health compromised by being run through the wringer
again."

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The Canadian Press; The Alberta government announced Monday that it
will fund Aleena Sadownyk's treatment for Maroteaux-Lamy Syndrome.;

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2013 The Star Phoenix, a division of Canwest MediaWorks Publication
                                      Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              130 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          Corsicana Daily Sun (Texas)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                           February 18, 2016 Thursday

Victoria's journey: Funds established to help woman with rare disease

BYLINE: Deanna Kirk, Corsicana Daily Sun, Texas

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 537 words


Feb. 18--Victoria Humphries, or Vicki as she's known to family and friends,
became a caregiver when she returned to Corsicana to help her parents when both
were struck with very serious medical issues in 2013.

Now, Vicki is the one in Baylor Hospital with a very serious illness -- an
illness so rare, she's the first patient there with exactly that disease.

"Vicki started having symptoms in December and has had eight emergency room
visits and two hospitalizations," said Cindy Humphries, Vicki's mom. "Currently,
she is on the telemetry floor at Baylor Hospital. She is under the care of many
doctors, including a nephrologist and hematologist. The doctors have started her
on Cyclosporine, an immune suppressant."

Vicki was found to have Castleman-Kojima Disease (TAFRO Syndrome). The
hematologist said a person can have Castleman's disease without TAFRO syndrome,
but a person cannot have TAFRO syndrome without Castleman's disease. That doctor
said while Vicki is not the first patient they have seen with Castleman's
disease, she is the first patient at Baylor with TAFRO Syndrome. Since Baylor is
a teaching hospital, there have been many doctors taking interest in her case.

The disease affects the lymphatic system, and is currently affecting her heart.
She has had fluid drained from both lungs on different occasions.

"She is on a drug they give people who have organ transplants, like an
anti-rejection drug," Cindy said. "This disease has no cure, but the hope is
that this drug helps to get her body functions back in sync."

Vicki has a sister, Michelle, and two brothers, Jake and Jud. She graduated from
Corsicana High School in 2003, and the University of North Texas in 2011.

The family was sent reeling the summer of 2013 when Cindy was diagnosed with
endometrial cancer, resulting in two surgeries, followed by chemotherapy and
radiation. Sam Humphries, a retired Math/Science teacher with CISD, had
emergency double bypass surgery in September and lung surgery in November, all
2013.

Vicky was the selfless one who came home to take care of her parents. Since they
have been doing well and recovered, she's been working at Drane Intermediate
School as a Special Education aide, as well as part-time at Home Depot, which
she was doing at the time of her illness.

"At this point, we have no idea when she will be released (from the hospital),"
Cindy said. "Right now, she is on catastrophic leave with the school district.
That will be 30 days."

Cindy said there may be a possibility that after that runs out, Vicki's
co-workers may be able to donate sick time to her, but Victoria has no short
term disability.

There has been a GoFundMe account set up in Vicki's name, and an account at
Community National Bank and Trust in the name of Cindy Humphries to benefit
Victoria Humphries, if you feel so led to help this young lady in what may be a
very lengthy fight against a rare disease with heft medical bills.

Deanna Kirk is a Daily Sun staff writer and editor of Explore Corsicana
magazine. She may be reached at dkirk@corsicanadailysun.com

___ (c)2016 the Corsicana Daily Sun (Corsicana, Texas) Visit the Corsicana Daily
Sun (Corsicana, Texas) at corsicanadailysun.com Distributed by Tribune Content
Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20160218-XQ-Victoria-s-journey-Funds-established-to-help-woman-with-
rare-disease-0218-20160218

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: XQ


                       Copyright 2016 Corsicana Daily Sun


                              131 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Mercury

                                  July 6, 2014
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

I was born with two extra fingers but rare genetic disorder was undetected for
years;
The Sunday Mercury is backing a £1 million campaign to set up Europe's first
Rare Disease Centre in Birmingham. ANUJI VARMA meets one of the patients who
will benefit

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 30,31

LENGTH: 903 words


WHEN little Daniel Evans was born with an extra digit on each hand, his family
and doctors thought nothing of it.

He played, laughed and cuddled his parents like any other tot his age.

But the extra fingers were the first sign that all was not right with the
youngster.

It wasn't until four years later that his parents would discover Daniel was
suffering from a rare genetic condition called Laurence-Moon-Bardet-Biedl
Syndrome (LMBBS), which would leave him overweight and nearly blind.

"My parents had no idea there was anything wrong with me before then," explains
Daniel, now 28, of Harborne.

"I was born with an extra digit on each hand. Both were removed soon after birth
and at the time they didn't think there was a problem although they thought it
was a bit weird."

There are around one in 160,000 babies born with the syndrome. Typical symptoms
include extra fingers and toes, vision loss, obesity and heart problems.

And Daniel, who works as a parttime lunchtime receptionist, has many of these,
with his eyesight and weight causing him the most trouble.

Picked on at school for his weight, Daniel hardly had any friends.

"School was hard," he recalls. "I went to a mainstream school and I was the
first person there with a disability. It was difficult for me and for them.

"I didn't have any friends because not many people understood my illness.

"I was bullied about my weight and I didn't enjoy school. I kept myself to
myself.

"They picked on me for being fat. I would try to explain to them why, but they
just didn't understand."

And Daniel, who undergoes treatment at the Queen Elizabeth Hospital, in
Edgbaston, didn't have just the bullies to contend with.

His eyesight began deteriorating at the age of 12.

"They had already discovered I was colour blind at junior school," he adds.

"I had problems with my eyesight soon afterwards. I could only see things closer
to me so I had to sit at the front of the class.

"I was about 18 when my vision started to get worse more rapidly. I needed
things in larger print.

"At about 21 I noticed I couldn't see things without applications. I needed
speaking devices.

"But I was still able to get around."

Over the last couple of years, Daniel's vision has become darker. He can only
see shadows and figures and is unable to make out a person's face.

He lives with a friend and has to rely on her to help him when he goes out.

"I don't go out at night in the winter if I am on my own," he says. "I fear
going to the city centre. People walk into you. I can't see where the shops are.
I have to rely on people to take me. I do get very frustrated."

Daniel has learned to cope with his condition as best as he can.

After nishing school he left his home in Burnham, Berkshire to attend the Queen
Alexander College in Harborne, specically for people with disabilities.

"I hadn't seen disabled people in my area but the college was fantastic," he
says. "I thought I could get myself a life.

"I've spent the last ve years doing everything I wanted to do when I was a
teenager."

As a result of the syndrome, Daniel does have to keep an eye on his weight. He
found himself weighing 26 stone a few years ago.

He explains: "I had stopped look-look ing after myself and had let things get
out of control.

"[#x201e]e hospital told me that I would get more problems because of that and
wouldn't have a happy life.

"I am still overweight but I have managed to lose six stone.

"I need to keep on with my dieting otherwise I could have kidney and heart
problems if I don't."

"  He says he is looking forward to the rare diseases unitnally opening its
doors next year.

"I was originally being treated at the eye hospital based at Selly Oak Hospital
but now I go to the QE," he explains.

"[#x201e]e rare diseases unit will be great. It will mean having everything
under one roof. I won't have to take time o[#x2c6] to go to various
appointments."

Work has started on the building which will house the Rare Disease Centre.

Justine Davy, Head of Fundraising at QEHB Charity, said: "It's wonderful to see
sca[#x2c6]olding go up and work begin to start on the Institute of Translational
Medicine which will be the 'home' of the Rare Disease Centre.

"We are now on a 12-month countdown so it's vital that we get the funds in to
create this wonderful centre.

"Please become a friend to patients and their families and make the challenge of
living with a rare disease a little easier.

"If every reader signs up to be a Friend of the Rare Disease Centre we will
raise more than £625,000 and be over halfway to our £1m target. [#x201e]ank you
so much in advance for your support."

For more information log onto ¦www.qehb.org/rare.

£1m Rare Disease Centre: How you can help THE Sunday Mercury and Birmingham Mail
have joined forces with the Queen Elizabeth Hospital Birmingham Charity to raise
£1 million to help set up Europe's rst Rare Diseases Centre at the QE.

Drawing on the knowledge, skills and care of the QE, Birmingham Children's
Hospital and the University of Birmingham, the new unit will enable patients
from all over the UK to access treatment in one place.

Researchers will work, in turn, to develop cures for rare, genetic conditions
which collectively a[#x2c6]ect 3.5 million people in the UK. For more details
visit www.birminghammail.co.uk and www.qehb.org/rare/ [#x201e]e charity will
also benet from the star-studded Pride of Birmingham awards at the city's
historic Town Hall on September 26, during which courage, caring and community
will be recognised.

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Daniel ¦Evans who has Laurence-Moon-Bardet-Biedl
Syndrome. Right, as a new born
Daniel Evans was ¦born with an extra digit on each hand

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SMY


               Copyright 2014 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved


                              132 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                     Waikato Times (Hamilton, New Zealand)

                           February 28, 2015 Saturday

Rare disease changes direction of little boy's future

SECTION: NEWS; NATIONAL; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 493 words


When Te Hoka Wanikau was diagnosed with Worster-Drought Syndrome last year, his
mum Irena Wanikau finally knew what was wrong with their son, despite the
disease being so rare it's barely heard of. Kirsty Lawrence reports.

--------------------

Irena Wanikau's son has a disease so rare the New Zealand rare disease website
had not even heard of it when she contacted it for help.

She has discovered just two other people in New Zealand who have Worster-Drought
syndrome. They now form her support group to help with the journey faced by her
third child, Te Hoka Wanikau.

Worster-Drought syndrome is a type of cerebral palsy that affects the muscles
around the mouth and throat.

This causes problems with swallowing, feeding, talking, dribbling and other
actions controlled by these muscles. Irena said the first sign that there was
something wrong with Hoka, 4, came when he was not hitting his milestones as
well as her first two children.

Hoka underwent numerous procedures with no answers, but at age 4 he was
diagnosed with Worster-Drought syndrome.

"Every year we would hope he would grow out of this by the time he went to
school, but when the diagnosis came through we couldn't deny that's what he
had."

She said Hoka's condition had changed the way she could plan her children's
future. "With my first two I was able to plan their future; they knew before
they went to school they were going to university and their pathway has been
pretty mainstream. "With [Hoka] I've had to suck it up and come to terms that I
have to move the benchmark and I don't know what his pathway will be . . . for
us it's day to day."

When Hoka was first diagnosed his pediatrician tried to find a support group,
but there was nothing in New Zealand.

Irena found a support group based in England that put her in touch with a New
Zealand mother who had a son with WDS.

"I tracked her down on Facebook and her son is 21 years old. She knew of another
mother whose child is 18, so we contacted her.

"It's nice knowing their sons have gone through this journey so I can pick their
brains."

She said she vividly remembered taking her second son to the bank to deposit
money from his piggy bank, and when he was asked what it was for, he responded
"university".

She said she knows that is not going to happen for Hoka "but I still want
learning for him".

Making decisions about something as simple as picking a primary school scared
her, as it could determine the difference between a successful future or a hard
future.

"If I make the wrong one then potentially his quality of life will not be as
maximum as it could have been if I had made another decision."

Irene said without the support of his father and grandparents it would be a lot
harder.

"I want to wrap him in as much love and security as possible so he might be just
that little bit more resilient."

--------------------

CAPTION:

Closer than ever: Te Ariki Wanikau, left, with mum Irena Wanikau and Te Hoka
Wanikau.

Picture: KIRSTY LAWRENCE

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2015 Fairfax New Zealand
                              All Rights Reserved


                              133 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                        May 10, 2016 Tuesday 6:30 AM EST

Acer Therapeutics Closes $8.15 Million Series B Financing

LENGTH: 751  words


May 10 -- Acer Therapeutics Inc., a pharmaceutical company developing therapies
for serious rare diseases with significant unmet medical need, today announced
the company has closed its Series B round with $8.15 million in new investment.
Proceeds from the financing will primarily be used to prepare a new drug
application (NDA) for the company's lead candidate, ACER-002 (celiprolol
hydrochloride), which is being developed for the treatment of vascular
Ehlers-Danlos Syndrome (vEDS), a rare, life-threatening genetic connective
tissue disorder. Acer also plans to use the funds to support manufacturing and
clinical development of ACER-001, a proprietary taste-masked, immediate-release
formulation of sodium phenylbutyrate (NaPBA) for Maple Syrup Urine Disease
(MSUD) and Urea Cycle Disorder (UCD), serious genetic diseases which impact
amino acid and ammonia metabolism, respectively.

With a lead investment from TVM Life Science Venture VII, Dr. Luc Marengere,
Managing Partner of TVM Life Science Capital, joins the board. He joins Dr.
Cynthia Lavoie, TVM General Partner, who has led investments by TVM Life Science
Venture VI into the Series A and B rounds. "TVM is pleased to support an
experienced team and the development of late-stage products for orphan
indications with a high unmet need," says Dr. Lavoie. "This latest investment is
representative of our commitment to the team and to the patients suffering from
these disorders," adds Dr. Marengere. Investors include Bukwang Pharm. Co.,
which has supported the company since its Series A round.

"With this latest financing, Acer is well-positioned to progress our late-stage
therapeutic candidates for serious rare diseases, particularly as we rapidly
advance our lead candidate ACER-002 for vascular Ehlers-Danlos Syndrome toward
key regulatory milestones," said Chris Schelling, CEO and founder of Acer. "We
are gratified that our investors have demonstrated confidence in Acer's approach
through their participation in both rounds of the company's financing efforts."

Both ACER-002 and ACER-001 received orphan drug designation from the U.S. Food
and Drug Administration (FDA), which is provided to drugs and biologics that are
defined as those intended for the safe and effective treatment, diagnosis or
prevention of rare diseases and disorders that affect fewer than 200,000 people
in the U.S.

About ACER-002 and Vascular Ehlers-Danlos Syndrome (vEDS)

Ehlers-Danlos Syndrome (EDS) is a group of hereditary disorders of connective
tissue. Vascular EDS (vEDS) is the most severe subtype where patients suffer
from life threatening arterial dissections and ruptures, as well as intestinal
and uterine ruptures. The average mortality is 51 years of age. There are
approximately 2,000 people in the U.S. diagnosed with vEDS, though experts
estimate as many as 5,000 patients may be affected. There are currently no
FDA-approved therapies for vEDS.1

Acer is advancing ACER-002 (celiprolol), a new chemical entity (NCE), for the
treatment of vEDS and plans to file an NDA based on a randomized controlled
clinical study of celiprolol.2 In 2015, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration
(FDA) granted ACER-002 orphan drug designation for the potential treatment of
vEDS.

About ACER-001

Maple Syrup Urine Disease (MSUD) is a rare, devastating genetic disease which
prevents the proper metabolism of three essential amino acids - leucine,
isoleucine and valine. There is no FDA-approved therapy for MSUD, and the
condition is sub-optimally managed by a highly-restricted diet alone. Despite
this diet, patients experience poor neurological outcomes and social impairment.
Approximately 1,000 people suffer from MSUD in the U.S. and 3,000 are affected
worldwide.

A Urea Cycle Disorder (UCD) is a genetic disorder caused by a mutation that
results in a deficiency of one of the six enzymes in the urea cycle. These
enzymes are responsible for removing ammonia from the blood stream. In UCDs,
nitrogen accumulates in the form of ammonia, a highly toxic substance, resulting
in hyperammonemia (elevated blood ammonia). Ammonia then reaches the brain
through the blood, where it can cause irreversible brain damage, coma and/or
death. Approximately 2,000 patients have been diagnosed with a UCD in the U.S.

Acer is planning to initiate pivotal clinical studies of ACER-001 for the
treatment of MSUD and UCD. In 2014, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA)
granted ACER-001 orphan drug designation for the potential treatment of MSUD.

Source: Acer Therapeutics

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2016 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              134 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                    Canterbury Bankstown Express (Australia)

                           February 11, 2014 Tuesday
                          CanterburyBankstown Edition

Jacob mum's inspiration

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 232  words


When Jacob Caracoglia was diagnosed with Angelman syndrome two years ago, it was
a shock to his parents who - like most other people - had never heard of the
rare disorder.

The syndrome is a neuro-genetic disorder which -affects speech and mobility, and
causes severe intellectual and developmental -delays.

Jacob's parents Joanne and Frank are organising a fundraiser for later this year
to help raise money for the Foundation for Angelman Syndrome Therapeutics
Australia.

A drug trial to help find a cure or treatment for the syndrome took place in the
US last year. Foundation chairwoman Meagan Cross said they hoped to expand the
trial to Australia, but at least $380,000 had to be raised to get it started.

February marks International Rare Disease month and International Angelman Day
is on Saturday.

This comes as the State Government reminds people they have until Friday to have
their say on the draft Disability Inclusion Bill, relating to the National
Disability Insurance Scheme.

"Jacob faces, and will continue to face, so many challenges, yet he surprises us
each day," Mrs Caracoglia said.

"He's my inspiration."

WHAT IS IT?

â-  Angelman syndrome afflicts about 1 in 20,000 people â-  International
Angelman Day is held on February 15, as the rare disorder affects chromosome 15
and February is International Rare Disease monthâ-  For more details or to
donate, visit cureangelman.org.au

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: Canterbury-Bankstown Express


                   Copyright 2014 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              135 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                           The Chronicle (Australia)

                           February 19, 2013 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Rare courage to face disease

BYLINE: Naomi Fallon

SECTION: A; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 365  words


IM NOT afraid of dying but Im afraid of getting older because I dont know how my
body will cope.

As a sufferer of the rare genetic condition, Ehlers Danlos syndrome, 25-year-old
Rhiannen Sugars battles with hyper mobile joints resulting in constant
subluxations and dislocations, cervical spine instability and constant pain and
discomfort.

Her life expectancy is just 48 and vascular ruptures, dissections, aneurysms and
strokes could be common occurrences in the future.

My whole childhood ... we knew there was something very peculiar about me. I was
very flexible, I often suffered from dislocations, I got lots of tummy aches. It
was all these little things, she said.

It wasnt until I got to around 22 that my body was really in crisis. It really
began to struggle.

Despite being born with the disease, Ms Sugars was only diagnosed a couple of
years ago after her friend, a medical student, encouraged her to look into
Ehlers Danlos syndrome.

Regular arthritis medication has helped bring my pain right down to a manageable
level and I ride regularly. Riding has actually stopped me from losing my
ability to walk, she said.

Ehlers Danlos syndrome is one of 8000 known rare diseases that affect about two
million Australians.World Rare Disease Day, held on February 28, aims to raise
awareness of these diseases and their impact on patients lives.

Ms Sugars hopes with awareness, comes more funding and support.

Theres so many of us, [Ehlers Danlos syndrome] is just one of thousands of
conditions, she said.

For adults in Australia theres absolutely nothing for us, theres nowhere we can
turn.

Through sharing my story hopefully people will realise that there are people in
the community who are really struggling, who live with these rare conditions and
theres not much medical help, its hard to get services, its hard to get help,
its a financial and an emotional strain.

While there is no known cure for her illness, Ms Sugars hopes one day there will
be.

My future is really uncertain.

We really dont know what will happen, she said.

Maybe I cant be saved, but maybe someone elses child can be. We need to find
answers.

For more information on Rare Disease Day, visit rarediseasedayaustralia.com.au

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CH


       Copyright 2013 The Federal Capital Press of Australia PTY Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              136 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                           The Chronicle (Australia)

                           February 19, 2013 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Rare courage to face disease

BYLINE: Naomi Fallon

SECTION: A; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 365  words


IM NOT afraid of dying but Im afraid of getting older because I dont know how my
body will cope.

As a sufferer of the rare genetic condition, Ehlers Danlos syndrome, 25-year-old
Rhiannen Sugars battles with hyper mobile joints resulting in constant
subluxations and dislocations, cervical spine instability and constant pain and
discomfort.

Her life expectancy is just 48 and vascular ruptures, dissections, aneurysms and
strokes could be common occurrences in the future.

My whole childhood ... we knew there was something very peculiar about me. I was
very flexible, I often suffered from dislocations, I got lots of tummy aches. It
was all these little things, she said.

It wasnt until I got to around 22 that my body was really in crisis. It really
began to struggle.

Despite being born with the disease, Ms Sugars was only diagnosed a couple of
years ago after her friend, a medical student, encouraged her to look into
Ehlers Danlos syndrome.

Regular arthritis medication has helped bring my pain right down to a manageable
level and I ride regularly. Riding has actually stopped me from losing my
ability to walk, she said.

Ehlers Danlos syndrome is one of 8000 known rare diseases that affect about two
million Australians.World Rare Disease Day, held on February 28, aims to raise
awareness of these diseases and their impact on patients lives.

Ms Sugars hopes with awareness, comes more funding and support.

Theres so many of us, [Ehlers Danlos syndrome] is just one of thousands of
conditions, she said.

For adults in Australia theres absolutely nothing for us, theres nowhere we can
turn.

Through sharing my story hopefully people will realise that there are people in
the community who are really struggling, who live with these rare conditions and
theres not much medical help, its hard to get services, its hard to get help,
its a financial and an emotional strain.

While there is no known cure for her illness, Ms Sugars hopes one day there will
be.

My future is really uncertain.

We really dont know what will happen, she said.

Maybe I cant be saved, but maybe someone elses child can be. We need to find
answers.

For more information on Rare Disease Day, visit rarediseasedayaustralia.com.au

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CH


       Copyright 2013 The Federal Capital Press of Australia PTY Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              137 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                    The Daily Oklahoman (Oklahoma City, OK)

                            June 10, 2015 Wednesday

Man runs for rare disease cure

BYLINE: By Sarah Lobban For The Oklahoman

SECTION:

LENGTH: 615 words


Noah Coughlan is the type of guy who enjoys going for&nbsp; a daily jog. He's a
bit more ambitious than most, though - his runs don't take him around the block,
but across the country.In February, Coughlan set out from New York City on his
third cross-America run to raise money for rare disease awareness.Well-known
diseases often have marathons and walks organized in their names that draw
thousands of participants each year. The nearly 7,000 rare diseases tend to draw
less attention, but to the 30 million Americans who have them, the effects are
no less devastating.Coughlan's motivation for his first run in 2011 was two
girls he knew growing up in California who had Batten disease, a rare and fatal
genetic disorder. He set out to raise awareness for Batten disease, but as the
journey progressed he realized rare diseases covered a much broader spectrum."We
don't talk about (rare diseases) a lot, but they're right under the surface,"
Coughlan said.

"I think it's a very significant social issue."Capitol eventLast month, his run
brought him to Oklahoma City, where Guy Leach was waiting to greet him. Leach,
who has complex regional pain syndrome, started a support group after his
diagnosis several years ago and has been a strong proponent of CRPS and rare
disease awareness.When he heard of Coughlan's Run 4 Rare, Leach knew he wanted
to help Coughlan do the most possible good with his time in Oklahoma City."Noah
has been doing a great job raising awareness and getting attention to rare
diseases,"&nbsp; Leach said. "It's not every day you meet a guy who's running
across the U.S."Weather, road conditions, and other unpredictable factors meant
Coughlan didn't know where he'd be in his route until a few days before he
arrived. However, he and Leach were able to arrange an event at the state
Capitol.Coughlan met Gov. Mary Fallin, who gave&nbsp; him&nbsp; a commendation
for his efforts. Other rare disease advocates, including Leach, were present to
discuss legislation regarding how doctors are trained to handle rare diseases
and answer questions from the public about the diseases.Making it personalAlong
his run, Coughlan has met many people affected by rare diseases. He's made it
part of his mission to dedicate each day of his run to a different person or
disease, and the website that tracks his progress has links to organizations
that fund rare disease research.One of the people to have a run day dedicated to
him was Mark Dvorak of Norman. Dvorak, who has hereditary spastic paraplegia,
said one of the key benefits he hopes will come from Coughlan's awareness
campaign is earlier detection of diseases."My own diagnosis took seven years,"
said Dvorak, whose illness has cost him much of his lower body mobility. "There
are people going through that right now. It's very sad, and it's bad enough for
adults, but the majority of rare diseases affect children, and that's even
sadder."Coughlan's run will come to an end in July in San Diego, but his mission
to raise awareness will go on. All three of his runs are the subject of a
documentary produced by Luminous Pictures, a California-based independent film
company, slated for release in 2016.He said he hopes more people will be
inspired to learn about rare diseases on their own, empathize with those
affected, and contribute to research efforts for prevention and cures.
Ultimately, he'd like to see the diseases become not just rare but extinct.To
learn moreFor more information on Coughlan's journey and how to support it, go
to www.run4rare.org.To learn more about Guy Leach's&nbsp;complex regional pain
syndrome support group, see the&nbsp; CRPS UNITED page on Facebook or email
crpsunited@hotmail.com

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2015 The Daily Oklahoman, All Rights Reserved


                              138 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                         The Straits Times (Singapore)

                              March 3, 2013 Sunday

Helping children with rare disorders;
Society raises funds and holds awareness campaigns to support families with
afflicted kids

BYLINE: Priscilla Kham

SECTION: NEWS; Home

LENGTH: 546 words


For two months, Ms Patricia Ng and her husband did not know what was wrong with
their six-month-old daughter, Chloe, who was having difficulty swallowing her
milk.

Doctors thought she might have a heart condition, Down syndrome, or a thyroid
problem.

But an examination by a geneticist and a blood test analysed in the United
States confirmed she was suffering from Pompe disease, an inherited
neuromuscular disorder that causes progressive muscle weakness.

Infants with Pompe disease normally do not survive past their first year, and
need enzyme replacement therapy before the age of six months to improve their
chances of survival.

"Those two months were critical. If she hadn't been diagnosed, it would've been
too late," said Ms Ng, a 39-year-old manager at Great Eastern Life.

Chloe is now three years old. Though still unable to walk or talk, she could
recognise more than 40 types of animals, flowers and insects before the age of 2
1/2. She communicates through pointing.

After their ordeal, Ms Ng and her husband started the Rare Disorders Society
Singapore (RDSS) for families of children with such disorders. It has grown from
five families to more than 20 today. The support group raises funds for
hospitals and has held several rare disorders awareness campaigns.

It met yesterday to commemorate international Rare Disease Day. Jointly
organised with Club Rainbow, the event aimed to raise awareness of rare diseases
that afflict children, in order to facilitate early detection.

The United States National Institutes of Health says a disease is rare if fewer
than 200,000 people in the US, a country of 315 million, have it.

There are about 6,000 to 8,000 known rare diseases worldwide, but the number
here is not known. Three-quarters of them affect children, according to the
European Society for Paediatric Oncology, and 30 per cent of patients die before
the age of five.

Because of their nature, rare disorders are difficult to diagnose. "There have
been children who were misdiagnosed, or died because it was too late to treat
them," said Ms Ng, who also has a healthy six-month-old son.

Mrs Yeo Biyi, a 38-year-old financial consultant whose six-year-old daughter
Robby was diagnosed with Williams syndrome when she was 10 months old, was
thankful she got treatment early.

Williams syndrome is a developmental disorder that affects learning ability, and
has symptoms such as low muscle tone, affecting mobility.

"We got her started on treatments like physiotherapy immediately, and we felt
that starting early greatly improved her ability to walk," said Mrs Yeo.

At the event attended by about 50 adults and children, parents spoke about their
experiences, and shared tips ranging from emotional management to the kinds of
diets that may affect their children.

It was the first time Club Rainbow, a non-profit organisation that provides
support for families of children with major chronic illnesses, was involved.

"Though rare diseases may affect only a few people, we need to start with the
premise that every Singaporean matters," said its president, Mr Gregory
Vijayendran. "Although they are rare, there is enough common ground with other
more common diseases when it comes to emotional journeys that parents and
children go through."

pkham@sph.com.sg

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2013 Singapore Press Holdings Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              139 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 17, 2003 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

HEALTH;
On Rare Diseases, Parents Take Hope Into Their Own Hands

BYLINE:  By DAVID TULLER

SECTION: Section F; Column 5; Giving; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1336 words


WHEN Leslie Gordon and Scott Berns learned in 1998 that their toddler, Sam,
suffered from an obscure genetic disorder called progeria, they scoured the
known universe for answers -- and found almost nothing.

There was no effective treatment for the disease, which causes premature aging
and usually results in early-adolescent death from cardiovascular complications.
No one had identified a cause. And the condition was so rare, affecting fewer
than one child in four million, that no group was working to improve the
prospects for those afflicted.

So the couple, both of whom are doctors, decided to start the Progeria Research
Foundation, a nonprofit group in Peabody, Mass. Since its founding in 1999, Dr.
Gordon said, it has created, for research, a tissue bank of children who have
progeria; awarded $1.2 million in grants to study the disease; organized the
first symposium ever dedicated to the issue; and served as an information and
networking resource for other families coping with the ailment.

"We would love to have just tagged onto another group that was trying to help
these children," Dr. Gordon said. "But there wasn't one. There was a hole there.
These kids were left at the back of the line. We were told, 'Well, it's a rare
disease, there's no funding for it, no one knows about it.' So we said, 'Fine,
we'll create a foundation.' "

People with cancer, diabetes and other common illnesses have long recognized the
benefits of banding together to support one another and promote their research
agenda. But those suffering from rare disorders have usually suffered in
isolation.

The Internet has changed that landscape significantly. In recent years,
hundreds, if not thousands, of groups have taken advantage of online offers of
services and solace to patients with rare diseases, as well as to their families
and friends. Although some organizations remain small and focus only on
providing emotional support and treatment information, others devote time to
searching for answers to complex medical and scientific questions.

"These organizations usually start when a number of families get together and
begin a support group," said Abbey Meyers, the founder and president of the
National Organization for Rare Disorders, an umbrella group in Danbury, Conn.
"But eventually somebody says, 'I want to find treatment or a cure,' and in
order to accomplish that, you have to raise money. So they end up as full-grown
charities."

The better-organized groups have developed high-powered medical advisory boards
to review grant applications, and have scored some notable successes.

Earlier this year, for example, researchers affiliated with the progeria
foundation announced that they had identified the gene that causes the syndrome,
a discovery that should spur efforts to find treatments and possibly a cure.

At an October gathering organized partly by the Interstitial Cystitis
Association, scientists studying this extremely painful bladder condition
announced that they had identified the structure of a unique protein found in
the urine of people who suffer from it, said Dr. Vicki Ratner, an orthopedic
surgeon and the group's founder and president.

As typical of rare disease groups, Dr. Ratner's organization provides
researchers with small grants -- for the cystitis association, that means
$10,000 to $15,000 -- to set up pilot projects. That way, Dr. Ratner said,
scientists can develop preliminary data that will help them receive more
substantial government financing.

Although being a doctor has helped the organization gain credibility, she said,
the struggle for attention never ends. "We've worked 24/7 for the last 20
years," she said. "It wasn't as if someone said, 'There's this terrible disease,
how can we help you?' "

The National Institutes of Health, which defines a rare illness as one with
fewer than 200,000 sufferers, estimates that there are 6,000 such ailments,
which combined afflict 25 million people in the United States. With names like
alpha-1 antitrypsin deficiency, late infantile Batten disease and
neurofibromatosis, many conditions remain virtually unknown to the general
public.

"People donate to the charities that represent the diseases they fear they are
going to get -- lung disease, heart disease, cancer," said Ms. Meyers of the
National Organization for Rare Disorders. "But these diseases are totally
unfamiliar. Most of them are unpronounceable. So raising money can be torture."

Like private donors, government agencies have traditionally dedicated most of
their money to brand-name illnesses with large advocacy groups, so part of the
role of the rare disease foundations is to pique the interest of elected
officials and scientists. Many groups hold annual lobbying days on Capitol Hill,
making a concerted effort to hook up constituents who suffer from a particular
ailment with their Congressional representatives.

The groups have also increasingly recognized the value of establishing contacts
with scientists at the N.I.H., the leading source of government medical research
funds. Such efforts have paid off. This month, the institute announced the start
of a network of rare disease research centers that will receive more than $50
million over the next five years.

A staunch advocate of the initiative in rare disease research is Dr. Stephen C.
Groft, the director of the N.I.H.'s Office of Rare Diseases. Dr. Groft's office
has worked closely with many patient and family groups to help sponsor
scientific symposiums on diseases and to find other ways of fostering research.
It is also putting together regional meetings to teach representatives of rare
disease groups how the N.I.H. works and how people can identify researchers in
the institute who might be helpful. In turn, these nonprofit groups, Dr. Groft
said, can offer researchers access to potential participants in clinical trials.

"The groups are really our research partners, the link between patients and the
research community," he said.

Because of their low name recognition, the organizations raise most of their
money from grass-roots events like bingo nights, pool parties and art auctions.

"A few families have given significant amounts, but mostly it's families holding
golf tournaments, families holding walkathons, families holding a dinner-dance,"
said Sandy Wimsatt, the director of fund-raising for Families of Spinal Muscular
Atrophy, which has thousands of members nationwide.

Spinal muscular atrophy is a genetic, often fatal neurological illness that
causes loss of muscle control. Although the disease affects only one in about
6,000 children, the organization raised $4.5 million last year and has committed
more than $10 million in research grants through 2005, said Ms. Wimsatt, whose
son suffers from the disorder. Aided by the Internet and excitement generated by
some scientific discoveries, the organization has added three staff members to
manage its growth.

Few rare diseases can claim a celebrity spokesman, the way Michael J. Fox
represents Parkinson's disease. But they do occasionally receive a burst of
publicity.

In a recent article in the Journal of Medical Biography, some doctors speculated
that Franklin D. Roosevelt suffered not from polio but from Guillain-Barre
syndrome, a neurological disorder that leads to paralysis. While its cause
remains unknown, most people recover from the syndrome, though some suffer
long-term disabilities.

Whether the theory about Roosevelt is true or not, it got the disease's name in
the headlines, which surprised and delighted Estelle L. Benson, a former
schoolteacher and the executive director of the Guillain-Barre Syndrome
Foundation International, in Wynnewood, Pa.

"Of all the way-out things to bring attention to Guillain-Barre!" saidMs.
Benson, who started the group in 1980 with her husband, Robert, after he
recovered from a bout of the illness. "I have been inundated with calls. It's
become an educational opportunity for us, because now everybody is saying,
'Guillain-Barre, let's learn more about it.' "

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: KEEPING RARE DISEASES ON THE RADAR -- Leslie Gordon plays with
her son, Sam Berns, 7, who has progeria, a genetic disorder. (Photo by Evan
Richman for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              140 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                             Windsor Star (Ontario)

                           January 2, 2013 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Rare disease can involve cardiac complications

BYLINE: Dr. Keith Roach, The Windsor Star

SECTION: ARTS & LIFE; Dr. Keith Roach; Pg. C4

LENGTH: 577 words


DEAR DR. ROACH: My husband is 50 years old; six feet, six inches tall; and
weighs 185 pounds. He exercises regularly. Last weekend he woke up with some
pressure in his chest. He has a history of heart disease in his family, and we
went to the emergency room. One of the first things the doctor asked was, "Do
you have Marfan's syndrome?" We'd never heard of Mar-fan's syndrome, so we said
"no." When the cardiologist examined my husband, again one of the first things
mentioned was Marfan's syndrome.

We looked it up, and it was a huge shock to read that my husband has almost all
the characteristics. He has had yearly checkups, which include echocardiograms.
He played sports in high school and college, which required physicals and EKGs.

My question is, Why wouldn't any of the doctors in 50 years of regular visits
know about or mention the possibility of his having this syndrome? - A.

Marfan's syndrome is a rare disease of collagen - a protein that provides most
of the structure for the soft tissues in our body.

People with Marfan's syndrome tend to be tall and thin, with disproportionately
long arms and fingers. In addition to the cardiac complications of mitral and/or
aortic valve prolapse and dilated aorta, other associated findings of Marfan's
include an abnormally high, arched palate; a hollow or funnel chest; and
abnormalities of the eyes, including nearsightedness and abnormal position of
the lens.

If all the signs are present, it is usually pretty easy to make the diagnosis -
once you think about it.

However, Marfan's is variable, and its symptoms can overlap in appearance with
just regular tall, skinny people. As a tall, skinny person, I was asked
repeatedly if I had Mar-fan's syndrome - which I don't.

It used to be said that the life expectancy of Marfan's patients was 35 years,
but with the realization that some people have a more benign presentation, along
with advances in medical treatment, the life expectancy is much improved.

DEAR DR. ROACH: I was recently diagnosed with polymyalgia rheumatica. As a
child, I had rheumatic fever. I'm wondering if there is any relationship. As a
73-year-old, I'm otherwise healthy and active. The prednisone prescribed for
this condition has given me my life back. - C.G.

Polymyalgia rheumatica is an uncommon, but by no means rare, condition, usually
affecting people older than 50. It causes pain and stiffness, typically much
worse in the morning and affecting the shoulders, neck and upper arms more than
other joints.

It has nothing whatsoever to do with rheumatic fever, which, fortunately, really
IS rare now, except for the word "rheumatic," which just refers to "joints,"
since both conditions cause joint symptoms.

Polymyalgia rheumatica often is not diagnosed in a timely fashion, as symptoms
can begin slowly, and both patients and doctors can think it is just ordinary
joint pain or early arthritis.

A blood test for inflammation (either the ESR or C-reactive protein) is usually
but not always very abnormal. Treatment with moderate doses of prednisone, a
powerful steroid anti-inflammatory, confers a remarkable and almost immediate
benefit.

Dr. Roach regrets that he is unable to answer individual letters, but will
incorporate them in the column whenever possible. Readers may email questions to
ToYourGoodHealth@med.cornell.edu or request an order form of available health
newsletters at P.O. Box 536475, Orlando, FL 32853-6475. Health newsletters may
be ordered from www. rbmamall.com.

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Column

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2013 Windsor Star, a division of CanWest MediaWorks Publication Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              141 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                             The Gazette (Montreal)

                              March 1, 2010 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Their diseases are rare, but their suffering isn't; Patients push for more
information, better access to treatment, services

BYLINE: SUSAN SEMENAK, The Gazette

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A6

LENGTH: 599  words


As far as clubs go, this one's a motley crew.

Its inaugural Montreal meeting in a downtown hotel room yesterday brought
together about 100 children and adults in wheelchairs and leg braces, a teenager
with a Seeing Eye dog and a host of young families with handicapped children.

They call themselves the Regroupement québécois des maladies orphelines (the
association of orphan diseases.) They are 17 groups representing Quebecers with
illnesses and conditions that most people have never heard of, with names like
achondroplasia, Angelman and DiGeorge syndromes, Morquio's disease, lactic
acidosis and Prader-Willi syndromes.They are all rare diseases, most of them
congenital or appearing suddenly in childhood. Some cause intellectual
deficiencies, others chronic pain or difficulty breathing or growing or eating
or talking.

A rare disease is officially defined as a life-threatening or chronically
debilitating disease or condition with a low prevalence and a high level of
complexity. To be classified as "rare" fewer than one in 2,000 people will have
been affected by it. Some 7,000 such diseases have been officially recognized
around the world and in Quebec as many as 500,000 people are believed to suffer
from one of them.

Everyone in the room had somehow been touched by a rare disease and now they had
come together to seek solace in each other's stories and to lobby for more
information, mutual support and better access to treatment and support services.

"These are people and their families who have been living alone, in isolation,
with their illnesses. Because they are so few, they have no voice, no one to
represent them," said Gail Ouellette, one of the organization's founders, and a
former genetics researcher. "And because the illnesses are so rare, there are
often delays in getting diagnosis and treatment. There is nowhere for them to go
for information or support. As well, pharmaceutical companies are slow to invest
in the research to develop drugs to treat them, again because of their low
numbers."

Together, she said, they hope to make themselves heard.

Marjolaine Verville says she learned first-hand the power of numbers when she
and her husband, éric Tailleur, created a foundation for leukodystrophy, the
inherited disorder that affects brain growth. When their son Alexis, now 10, was
first diagnosed, Verville said, she felt helpless and hopeless and lost. Through
their organization, though, the couple has raised $300,000 to help fund the work
of a researcher at the Montreal Children's Hospital who is trying to track the
gene responsible for leukodystrophy.

At yesterday's meeting, Laure Waridel brought the room to tears when she spoke
of the everyday joys and hardships of caring for her 5-year-old daughter Alphée,
who has Smith-Lemli-Opitz syndrome, a metabolic and developmental disorder that
affects many parts of the body.

"At first we felt really alone. There were weeks and weeks of hospital visits
and consultations with specialists. " 'What does the baby have?' " became our
obsession," recalled Waridel, who still hasn't met anyone else with the syndrome
.

"I'd like to be of help to other parents in the same situation, who are confused
by a new diagnosis, feeling stress in their family."

Barry Katsof, who has PNH (paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria), whose main
complication is a high risk of kidney and liver failure and blood clots forming
in the blood vessels, said Canada is decades behind the rest of the world in
recognizing rare diseases and creating a national policy guiding how they are
tracked and treated.

ssemenak@thegazette.canwest.com

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2010 The Gazette, a division of CanWest MediaWorks Publication Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              142 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                      Times of India (Electronic Edition)

                              March 6, 2016 Sunday
                                 Jaipur Edition

CM asked to show urgency in treatment of LSD patients

SECTION: TIMES CITY

LENGTH: 509 words


Lysosomal Storage Disorders Support Society (LSDSS) has appealed to chief
minister Vasudhara Raje to show urgency in the treatment of patients with this
rare disease. Five children with the disease have already died in the recent
past.

LSDSS has submitted a letter of appeal with patients\x92 medical certificates
and other relevant documents to government officials including health minister
Rajendra Rathore urging them to take a step for providing treatment to children
suffering from lysosomal storage disorders (LSDs).

Majority of children with LSD are unable to get treatment as its yearly cost is
estimated to be Rs 1 crore.

A patient requires treatment throughout life.

\x93My son is suffering from Hunter syndrome, or mucopolysaccharidosis II (MPS
II). When he was just four-years-old, he was diagnosed with the disease. Since
the treatment is quite expensive, which is almost Rs 1 crore per year, I am
unable to start his treatment. He is surviving without treatment,\x94 the
boy\x92s father said.

He added that his son required enzyme replacement therapy (ERT) as his son's
body does not have that particular enzyme. If he gets the ERT regularly, his son
will be able to survive. Since the cost of treatment is quite high, the father
is unable to provide the required treatment for his son.

The LSDSS has pointed out that the families of the rare patients are going
through a tough time for the past three years (5 children have died already), as
they cannot afford the life-saving treatment

for their children due to its high cost. The families are hopeful that the
government will take necessary steps immediately to provide access to
life-saving treatment.

\x93Fourteen months ago, at the round table, health minister Rajendra Singh
Rathore had announced to set up a committee for LSD patients. He had also said
that a nodal officer would be deputed to undertake a number of welfare
initiatives including making treatment available under National Health Mission
and drugs available under the free medicine scheme for the patients. It has been
14 months now and these patients are still waiting to hear from the government
on implementing the initiatives,\x94 LSDSS mentioned in the letter to the CM.

On February 25, families of rare disease patients had met key genetic experts
and health ministry officials to discuss their plight and access to treatment on
Stakeholders\x92 Round Table Meeting (RTM) for welfare of rare disease patients
in Rajasthan.

A rare disease is a life threatening or chronically debilitating condition that
affects a very small number of people.

'Over 7,000 rare diseases exist'

According to a book -Rare diseases in paediatrics, written by Dr Ashok Gupta, JK
Lon superintendent, "It is estimated that more than 7,000 distinct rare diseases
exist today, affecting patients in their physical capabilities, mental
abilities, behaviour and sensorial capacities."

The names of some of rare diseases are Gaucher Type I, Fabry's disease, Pompe
disease, MPS-I (Hurler disease), MPS-II (Hunter disease), MPS-VI (Maroteaux-Lamy
syndrome).

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              143 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                             Waterloo Region Record

                           November 24, 2015 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

Harris proposes committee on treatment of rare diseases

BYLINE: Allison Jones, The Canadian Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A8

LENGTH: 621 words


A woman whose immune system is attacking her body's cells - one of only about 30
people in Ontario with the condition. A mother who took her children to the
United States so they could regain some mobility lost due to their rare
connective tissue disorder. A man whose rare condition went undiagnosed for 32
years until he took research into his own hands.

Those three people came to the Ontario legislature Monday as representatives of
the recent wave of rare-disease sufferers who had pleaded with the government
for help, and who are now looking for a comprehensive strategy.

Michael Harris, Progressive Conservative MPP for Kitchener-Conestoga, said a new
group of people with rare diseases could easily show up at the legislature every
week, or maybe even every day.

"(Their concerns) are all different, whether it be out-of-province coverage, a
pharmaceutical, a proper diagnosis," he said.

The government will typically respond to the concerns with measures that could
include a review or funding for a new drug, Harris said. But he's now calling
for an all-party committee to form a comprehensive strategy rather than a
"piecemeal approach."

Jennifer Hamilton is one of about 30 people in Ontario with atypical hemolytic
uremic syndrome, or aHUS, a life-threatening condition in which the immune
system attacks the body's cells, damaging blood vessels.

Ontario recently started providing interim funding for Soliris, a drug estimated
to cost between $500,000 and $700,000 annually per patient, but Hamilton said
she doesn't qualify.

Health Minister Eric Hoskins said, of about 23 applications for Soliris funding,
the province has approved 10 and is reviewing another three.

He applauded Harris for his advocacy on behalf of rare-disease sufferers, but
wouldn't say yet if the Liberal government will support the motion. Hoskins
noted Ontario is already co-chairing a national committee looking at the same
subject, which will report to the health ministers' meeting in January.

It's important for all parties to be involved in a strategy, he said, singling
out Alexion, the maker of Soliris.

"The patented medicine prices review board has made a ruling and determined that
in their view Alexion, the prices that they're charging in Canada are
appreciably higher than in other jurisdictions, including the United States, and
Alexion's response has been to sue the federal government," Hoskins said.

The company challenged the federal board's authority to order a reduction to
prices, saying that it intrudes upon provincial jurisdiction and that the price
of Soliris has not increased since being introduced to Canada in 2009, nor
decreased in other countries.

Chantelle Willson, a nurse and mother of four from Brantford, said her husband
and two of her children have been diagnosed with Ehlers-Danlos Syndrome, a
hereditary connective-tissue disorder.

"To hear your five-year-old describe it as a burning pain on his hands that feel
like knives are slicing him, slicing him across his forehead, down his tummy and
down his legs - you feel powerless and you don't know how to help," she said.

"It's absolutely heart-wrenching."

Ian Stedman has Muckle-Wells Syndrome, characterized by full-body rashes, fevers
and joint pain, and said he had made 176 visits to the doctor before he was 18.
He didn't get a proper diagnosis until the age of 32, when he noticed his
daughter experiencing similar symptoms and started researching conditions on his
own, he said.

Stedman said he and his three-year-old daughter are some of the lucky
rare-disease sufferers because there is treatment available for them, but he
hopes Harris's proposed committee could find a way to help more people get
proper diagnoses.

Harris's motion will be debated

Feb. 25.

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 Metroland Media Group Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              144 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                       Vallejo Times Herald (California)

                              June 3, 2007 Sunday

Kian in grip of rare disease

BYLINE: By RICH FREEDMAN/Times-Herald staff writer

SECTION: SUNDAY OUTLOOK

LENGTH: 814 words


Kian Jordan Rose pulls himself up, glances at "Barney" and gingerly walks to a
stack of books. He snags a "Dr. Seuss."

"Sharon!" he shouts to his mom. "Sharon!"

Sharon Rose forgives her 7-year-old son's informal beckoning. It's easy when
your one and only child is fortunate to be alive.

Kian Rose has Hurler's Syndrome, a rare genetic disorder that debilitates vital
organs and often causes retardation. An enzyme in the body that normally breaks
down sugars is absent in Kian, causing all his tissues to progressively
deteriorate.

Most patients die of heart failure between 5 and 10. However, Sharon and her
husband, Kevin, are hopeful. They know Hurler's Syndrome sufferers in their late
teens "and even 20," Sharon said. "And that's really promising."

It's late Thursday morning at the Roses' comfortable Vallejo home. Two days
earlier, Kian underwent his third back surgery. As the child grows, a rod in his
back must be extended every six months.

Add two hip surgeries, a tracheotomy, a bone marrow transplant and chemo
therapy, and it's no surprise the Roses are on a first-name basis with members
of the staff at the University of California at San Francisco Medical Center.

"It's the strangest thing," Sharon Rose said. "He does so well with the
surgeries. He's had so much at an early age. It's the small stuff he has a fit
about. He hates Band-Aids.

"I think he has a high tolerance for pain. He rarely complains about anything."

Sharon, an Ohio native, was 35 and Kevin, formerly of Berkeley, was almost 40
when they were married. Three years later, when Kian arrived, all seemed well at
first.

"I had a normal pregnancy," she said.

But "about every two months," something would be awry with Kian, his mother
said. A finger that wouldn't straighten was the first problem. Constant colds.
Little things that didn't add up.

"I called him my 'quirky kid,'" Sharon said, adding that doctors inevitablysaid
Kian "would grow out of" any of the questionable health problems.

But he didn't.

Finally, after three weeks of intense scrutiny, doctors diagnosed the disease,
first described in 1919 by German doctor Gertrud Hurler.

Blood tests determined both of Kian's parents carry Hurler's, though it never
surfaced in them. If they decided to have another child, there's a 25 percent
chance he or she would have Hurler's.

The Roses said Kian is going to be it.

"He's our one and only," Sharon said. "About a year ago, I finally decided 'no'
" to another child.

"It's hard for me," she said. "I never thought I would just have one. I really
grappled with it. But my husband just turned 50 and I'm 45. Kian does require so
much."

The successful bone marrow transplant Kian had when he was 2 slowed the disease,
but it's incurable, his mother said.

"We consider it a treatment," she said of the transplant. "It helps slow some of
these things down. It stops some. His corneas were clouded but after the
transplant, it cleared."


Benefit event ... What: Kian Jordan Rose Charitable Fund's second annual golf
tournamentWhen: Monday, July 30Where: Castlewood Country Club,
PleasantonContact: (510) 823-7071 or kiansjourney.com

It has helped knowing other Hurler's families, like the one in Petaluma and one
in Danville, said Sharon. "It's good to talk to the parents," she said.

Formerly on 16 medicines, Kian now has only a form of penicillin daily.

He alternates verbalizing words clearly with words that are unintelligible. He
picks up some Spanish words from "Dora," while Sharon sees Kian "figures things
out quickly."

"He has my husband's mind when it comes to mechanical stuff. He has my sense of
humor and personality. It's a good combination. And he loves praise."

Kian's disease is more devastating for dad than mom, Sharon said.

"This is Kevin's only son who's going to carry on his name," she said. "He's not
able to do the things that most fathers can do with their son. It's hard on him
in that respect. He does as much with him as he can, always tickling and
laughing with him."

Father and son "have their own little bonding that that is really cute," Sharon
said. "But Kevin can't take Kian to a baseball game. He's a borderline
hyperactive kid. He's not going to sit. He's a wanderer."

After the first two years "when you're holding your breath" through constant
surgeries, the Roses have adjusted as well as can be expected.

And they are crusading for research that may help their son and others like him.
The first Kian Jordan Charitable Fund Golf Tournament last year raised $10,000
and the Roses hope the second annual event July 30 event in Pleasanton raises at
least double that.

"Kian is a real blessing. A real joy," his mother said. "When I think I'm having
a bad day, I think about him and all he's been through and what he's going to go
through."

Kian sits down and watches "Kian's Journey," a video of his life of medical
attention.

Sharon Rose smiles. "He's definitively my hero," she said.

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: KIAN JORDAN ROSE, 7, was diagnosed with Hurler's Syndrome when he was
15 months old. The Vallejo child has undergone numerous back operations because
of the rare disease that effects enzymes. (Richard Freedman/Times-Herald)
Kian's mother, Sharon Rose (Richard Freedman/Times-Herald)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2007 The Times-Herald
                              All Rights Reserved


                              145 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                      The Guelph Mercury (Ontario, Canada)

                           November 24, 2015 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

Harris proposes provincial committee on treatment of rare diseases

BYLINE: Allison Jones, The Canadian Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A6

LENGTH: 624 words


A woman whose immune system is attacking her body's cells - one of only about 30
people in Ontario with the condition. A mother who took her children to the
United States so they could regain some mobility lost due to their rare
connective tissue disorder. A man whose rare condition went undiagnosed for 32
years until he took research into his own hands.

Those three people came to the Ontario legislature Monday as representatives of
the recent wave of rare-disease sufferers who had pleaded with the government
for help, and who are now looking for a comprehensive strategy.

Michael Harris, Progressive Conservative MPP for Kitchener-Conestoga, said a new
group of people with rare diseases could easily show up at the legislature every
week, or maybe even every day.

"(Their concerns) are all different, whether it be out-of-province coverage, a
pharmaceutical, a proper diagnosis," he said.

The government will typically respond to the concerns with measures that could
include a review or funding for a new drug, Harris said. But he's now calling
for an all-party committee to form a comprehensive strategy rather than a
"piecemeal approach."

Jennifer Hamilton is one of about 30 people in Ontario with atypical hemolytic
uremic syndrome, or aHUS, a life-threatening condition in which the immune
system attacks the body's cells, damaging blood vessels.

Ontario recently started providing interim funding for Soliris, a drug estimated
to cost between $500,000 and $700,000 annually per patient, but Hamilton said
she doesn't qualify.

Health Minister Eric Hoskins said, of about 23 applications for Soliris funding,
the province has approved 10 and is reviewing another three.

He applauded Harris for his advocacy on behalf of rare-disease sufferers, but
wouldn't say yet if the Liberal government will support the motion. Hoskins
noted Ontario is already co-chairing a national committee looking at the same
subject, which will report to the health ministers' meeting in January.

It's important for all parties to be involved in a strategy, he said, singling
out Alexion, the maker of Soliris.

"The patented medicine prices review board has made a ruling and determined that
in their view Alexion, the prices that they're charging in Canada are
appreciably higher than in other jurisdictions, including the United States, and
Alexion's response has been to sue the federal government," Hoskins said.

The company challenged the federal board's authority to order a reduction to
prices, saying that it intrudes upon provincial jurisdiction and that the price
of Soliris has not increased since being introduced to Canada in 2009, nor
decreased in other countries.

Chantelle Willson, a nurse and mother of four from Brantford, said her husband
and two of her children have been diagnosed with Ehlers-Danlos Syndrome, a
hereditary connective-tissue disorder.

"To hear your five-year-old describe it as a burning pain on his hands that feel
like knives are slicing him, slicing him across his forehead, down his tummy and
down his legs - you feel powerless and you don't know how to help," she said.
"It's absolutely heart-wrenching."

Ian Stedman has Muckle-Wells Syndrome, characterized by full-body rashes, fevers
and joint pain, and said he had made 176 visits to the doctor before he was 18.
He didn't get a proper diagnosis until the age of 32, when he noticed his
daughter experiencing similar symptoms and started researching conditions on his
own, he said.

Stedman said he and his three-year-old daughter are a couple of the lucky
rare-disease sufferers because there is treatment available for them, but he
hopes Harris's proposed all-party committee could find a way to help more people
get proper diagnoses.

Harris's motion will be debated Feb. 25.

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              146 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                              Chicago Daily Herald

                            November 20, 2005 Sunday
                                  All Editions

One little boy's four years of joy and pain

BYLINE: Sheila Ahern, Daily Herald Staff Writer

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1076 words


Tony Tzoubris' huge smile pushes up cheeks made chubby by hormone shots his dad
gives him every day.

Not that the 4-year-old holds a grudge. When he gets the chance, Tony climbs on
his dad's lap, wraps a chubby arm around his neck and listens to his mom, Patti,
and sister, Lia, chat in their Arlington Heights home.

And he smiles.

His smile lets his family know he's OK - that for now, he's forgotten about
needles and hospital visits that last hours. Tony's family looks for his smile
because most of the time, even they can't understand what he's saying.

OMS: No cause, cure

Tony Tzoubris has one of the rarest diseases in the world, called
opsoclonus-myoclonus syndrome, or OMS. It is named for the darting eyes and
muscle twitches that are hallmarks of the disease, which is also called
dancing-eyes-dancing-feet syndrome. There is no known cause or cure for the
disease, which is also listed with the National Organization of Rare Diseases.

About 80 children are diagnosed with the disease each year worldwide.

Because it is so rare, both funding and help are scarce. Support groups are
nothing more than an Internet e-mail click. Insurance companies don't cover
experimental medicine or treatments - which, for Tony, is just about everything.

So Tony's parents - Tony and Patti - are hoping to find a cure for OMS
themselves, one dollar at a time. Even though little Tony's treatment costs
about $100,000 per year, they're not raising money for themselves. They're
raising money for research. They're raising money for a cure.

"We can't just sit here and watch him deteriorate," his father said. "You know
how they say it takes a community to raise a child? Well it does, and that's
what we need."

So far, they've raised $220,000 between overseeing Tony's 24- hour care and
raising two other children: Lia, 6, and Sam, 2.

"We'll be able to tell Tony we did everything we could," Patti said.

When it comes to rare diseases, "everything" is money. And Patti and Tony want
to raise a whole lot of it - $1 million.

How it started

OMS children go from happy toddlers to screaming children with tremors that take
over their entire bodies. Most are unable to walk, crawl, roll over or even
swallow before being diagnosed.

The most widely accepted OMS theory is the auto-immune theory. The brain is an
innocent bystander caught in the "crossfire" between the body's immune system
and a tumor or virus, which it is trying to destroy. Brain regions like the
cerebellum, brainstem and limbic system bear the brunt of the onslaught,
according to Dr. Michael Pranzatelli of Southern Illinois University in
Springfield.

Pranzatelli is Tony's doctor and heads the largest pediatric OMC center in North
America. He is treating 120 children from all over the world.

For Tony, it all started on July 8, 2003, when he was 20 months. He was eating
breakfast with his family and between bites of cereal, Patti noticed a slight
tremor in Tony's right hand.

Several hours later, the entire right side of Tony's body was shaking, so his
parents took him to Children's Memorial Hospital in Chicago. After a battery of
tests all came back negative, the doctors told Tony and Patti that little Tony
had a post-viral infection and would improve within weeks.

But a few days later, tremors took over the rest of Tony's body. His parents
helplessly watched as he lost the ability to walk or crawl and eventually
everything - even control of his eyes, which darted back and forth
uncontrollably.

During Tony's next trip to the hospital, he was diagnosed with OMS.

"I remember the doctor told us it was like the lottery of diseases," Patti said.
"It's that rare."

Then came the spinal taps - six of them - along with eight CAT scans and two
rounds of chemotherapy.

"Everything a parent would never want to do to their child is what we've had to
do," Tony said.

Patti nods alongside her husband.

"Tony just accepts it," she said. "They put in an IV, and he doesn't even blink.
He's had treatments that last seven hours."

It's also hard for Tony's siblings.

"This kind of thing affects the whole family," Patti said. "Lia could write her
own story."

Tony's future

Tony's parents don't know if he'll ever be able to live independently or hold a
job. They don't know if he'll have learning disabilities or mental retardation.

OMS children often experience brain damage that causes permanent neurological
problems and a significant IQ drop. The tremors could also follow Tony for the
rest of this life.

They do know relapses will be likely. Relapses that bring back the full-body
tremors. Doctors will not give Tony and Patti a prognosis.

"Tony could wake up one morning and not be able to walk," Patti said.

To prevent relapses, Tony and Patti have had to shield Tony from germs most of
his life. They can go to the bookmobile, but not the public library. Trips to
the park and even grocery store are out.

Tony must also take daily hormone injections that caused his tiny frame to gain
15 pounds in a few weeks. OMS also causes speech problems that makes Tony
self-conscious, Patti said.

Despite all of the problems, Tony's very much like normal 4- year-olds.

When Patti brings it up, Tony nods about his Scooby Doo Halloween costume or a
birthday helium balloon that got away. For the first time in his life, Tony is
in school, taking special classes at Greenbriar Elementary School.

Tony's smile also touched his teacher, Nicki Koch, who organized a silent
auction in Tony's honor that will take place during parent-teacher conferences
Tuesday at Greenbrier Elementary School in Arlington Heights.

"His personality and his smile - he's just a great kid," Koch said.

Tony was supposed to attend school last year but was too sick and was
home-schooled.

"This is really the first time Tony has ever been away from the parents, and
he's doing great," Koch said.

'You'd never know'

Tony doesn't know a life that didn't include needles, spinal taps, chemotherapy,
nuclear scans and painful treatments. But maybe someday, thanks to his parents,
he will.

Until then, he smiles.

Because when you're 4, you can leave memories of needles at the hospital. At
home, there's television to watch with Lia, and little Sam is up from his nap,
toddling around and just begging for a loving poke from his older brother.

"Looking at him. You would never know how sick he was," Patti says as she smiles
at Tony drawing a picture. "You'd never know how sick he could be."

When Patti mentions his name, Tony pauses his doodling and looks up.

And he smiles.

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Tony Tzoubris' family - clockwise from left, Tony, 4-year- old Tony,
Patti, Sam and Lia - is trying to raise $1 million for opsoclonus-myoclonus
syndrome, or OMS, research. Tony Tzoubris received his diagnosis of the rare
disease more than two years ago, when he was 20 months old. Paul Beaty/Daily
Herald An additional photograph accompanied this article, however the caption
information was not available. Check the dated microfilm for the text of the
caption.
OMS at a glance - Opsoclonus-myoclonus syndrome - or OMS - is a rare
neurological disorder that usually affects infants and young children. It is
characterized by the sudden onset of brief, repeated, shocklike spasms of
muscles within the arms, legs or entire body; an impaired ability to control
voluntary movements; and continual, involuntary, rapid eye movements. - Its
cause is unknown. About half of those who are afflicted also have a
neuroblastoma, a rare, cancerous tumor. It is thought that the antibodies
designed to fight off the tumor somehow also end up attacking the brain. The
other half of OMS patients apparently have no neuroblastoma. In those cases,
doctors think the disease might be caused by a virus, a known cause of other
brain abnormalities. - Behavior problems and brain damage are common outcomes in
OMS patients, even in those who respond favorably to treatment and, in very rare
cases, later show no signs of the disease. - OMS is registered with National
Organization for Rare Disorders. Fewer than 80 children in the world are
diagnosed with OMS per year. Source: the National Organization for Rare
Disorders and The National Pediatric Myoclonus Center

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 Paddock Publications, Inc.


                              147 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                  Northeast Mississippi Daily Journal (Tupelo)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           September 7, 2013 Saturday

Rare disease strengthens Tupelo woman's faith

BYLINE: Riley Manning, Northeast Mississippi Daily Journal, Tupelo

SECTION: LIFESTYLE

LENGTH: 837 words


Sept. 07--The odds of contracting Guillain-Barre syndrome are almost as unlikely
as being struck by lightening.

But in January, Tupelo native and resident Julie Martin became the one in
100,000 people to contract the sickness each year.

Beginning with symptoms of numbness, the syndrome eventually causes total
paralysis. Spending a total of five months in an Atlanta hospital, the 25-year
educator and mother realized how much God had left to teach her.

Uncomfortably numb

Born in Tupelo, Martin spent the bulk of her teaching career in Atlanta before
returning three years ago to teach the Challenge gifted courses at Tupelo Middle
School.

On Jan. 5 of this year, her school year was cut short when she noticed numbness
in her hands and feet.

"I went to the emergency room and they thought I was having atypical migraines.
They sent me home, but within 24 hours, I couldn't lift my arms. My muscles were
weak, I couldn't walk," she said. "I knew something was wrong when they asked if
I intended to go back to teaching school."

Martin's experience is typical of victims with Guillain-Barre syndrome. The
auto-immune syndrome attacks the body's nervous signals, destroying the myelin
sheath around the nerves and preventing the brain from sending signals to
nerves.

After a spinal tap and the implementation of a pace maker, Martin was
transferred to the Shepherd's Center intensive care unit in Atlanta. Excessive
fluid pressing on her brain was causing seizures and hallucinations, which the
doctors quickly relieved by use of a shunt.

Over the next 12 weeks, she attended rehab, where she learned to walk and eat
again. The real help, however, came from visitors and church members from her
former congregation in Atlanta.

"It's amazing how much people love you," she said. "They were God's angels here
on Earth."

Rehab

The journey from being fully paralyzed to fully functional is a tough one. In
the beginning, Martin said she literally didn't know which way was up.

"The first step was sitting up, but I had to use a hand mirror to see what
sitting up was because I had lost my proprioception -- your body's sense of
where you are in space," she said. "Later, they harnessed me into a treadmill
that would walk for me, so my brain could remember what walking was like."

Martin said her seven-year-old son handled the situation well, as did her
husband.

"For the longest time, I couldn't even talk on the phone," she said. "My husband
and I really learned the meaning of our vows."

Martin said her recovery came with its fair share of frustrating moments, namely
learning to walk again and accepting her dependence on her family for help. She
resented missing six months of her son's life, but Guillain-Barre syndrome is
only fatal in about 5 percent of its victims. The vast majority of those who
catch it make a full recovery, and only a miniscule percentage of cases recur.

"The great thing is I knew I was going to get better," she said. "Looking around
the Shepherd's Center, I got survivor's guilt a little because a lot of the
people in there have limits on how well they can get."

Of course, Martin wondered, "Why me," and  "How did I get here," but not for
long. Everything in this life, she said, is attitude.

"I tried to take blessings into perspective. Even the most mundane things are
blessings, like lying in bed at night hearing myself breathe on my own," she
said. "Because there were many nights I lay in bed listening to a ventilator
breathe for me."

It's a God thing

Martin is quick to say that God sustained her through it all, answering her in
prayer, as well as in the form of the church.

"He and I spent a lot of time together. When you're lying there and you can't
talk or move, God is still there," she said. "To be trapped in my body, but my
mind knowing everything, I can't imagine not having prayer. It became a
conversation."

Martin grew up in the First Christian Church in Tupelo, and when she was
transferred to the Shepherd's Center, the chaplain contacted Martin's
congregation from when she lived in Atlanta. Almost daily they sent gifts or
visited, even brought her communion. When she returned to Tupelo, her fellow
First Christian members eagerly assisted her with food, finances, and
transportation to therapy.

"I felt like everything I had done before helped put the support I needed in
place," she said.

In early August, Martin hit the landmark of walking again on her own, with the
assistance of the walker. Though everyday tasks like folding clothes or washing
dishes are still difficult, she said she is getting better every day.

Most of all, she anticipates being back in the classroom, which she plans to be
in the fall.

"I sent my son to first grade when school started and the house was so quiet,"
she said. "I've had to adjust to quiet time. It's helped me appreciate the
noise."

riley.manning@journalinc.com

___ (c)2013 the Northeast Mississippi Daily Journal (Tupelo, Miss.) Visit the
Northeast Mississippi Daily Journal (Tupelo, Miss.) at www.nems360.com
Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20130907-TP-Rare-disease-strengthens-Tupelo-woman-s-faith-0907-20130907

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TP


               Copyright 2013 Northeast Mississippi Daily Journal


                              148 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                 therecord.com

                           November 24, 2015 Tuesday

Kitchener-Conestoga MPP Harris proposes Ontario all-party committee on
rare-disease treatment

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 623 words


TORONTO - A woman whose immune system is attacking her body's cells - one of
only about 30 people in Ontario with the condition. A mother who took her
children to the United States so they could regain some mobility lost due to
their rare connective tissue disorder. A man whose rare condition went
undiagnosed for 32 years until he took research into his own hands.

Those three people came to the Ontario legislature Monday as representatives of
the recent wave of rare-disease sufferers who had pleaded with the government
for help, and who are now looking for a comprehensive strategy.

Michael Harris, Progressive Conservative MPP for Kitchener-Conestoga, said a new
group of people with rare diseases could easily show up at the legislature every
week, or maybe even every day.

"(Their concerns) are all different, whether it be out-of-province coverage, a
pharmaceutical, a proper diagnosis," he said.

The government will typically respond to the concerns with measures that could
include a review or funding for a new drug, Harris said. But he's now calling
for an all-party committee to form a comprehensive strategy rather than a
"piecemeal approach."

Jennifer Hamilton is one of about 30 people in Ontario with atypical hemolytic
uremic syndrome, or aHUS, a life-threatening condition in which the immune
system attacks the body's cells, damaging blood vessels.

Ontario recently started providing interim funding for Soliris, a drug estimated
to cost between $500,000 and $700,000 annually per patient, but Hamilton said
she doesn't qualify.

Health Minister Eric Hoskins said, of about 23 applications for Soliris funding,
the province has approved 10 and is reviewing another three.

He applauded Harris for his advocacy on behalf of rare-disease sufferers, but
wouldn't say yet if the Liberal government will support the motion. Hoskins
noted Ontario is already co-chairing a national committee looking at the same
subject, which will report to the health ministers' meeting in January.

It's important for all parties to be involved in a strategy, he said, singling
out Alexion, the maker of Soliris.

"The patented medicine prices review board has made a ruling and determined that
in their view Alexion, the prices that they're charging in Canada are
appreciably higher than in other jurisdictions, including the United States, and
Alexion's response has been to sue the federal government," Hoskins said.

The company challenged the federal board's authority to order a reduction to
prices, saying that it intrudes upon provincial jurisdiction and that the price
of Soliris has not increased since being introduced to Canada in 2009, nor
decreased in other countries.

Chantelle Willson, a nurse and mother of four from Brantford, said her husband
and two of her children have been diagnosed with Ehlers-Danlos Syndrome, a
hereditary connective-tissue disorder.

"To hear your five-year-old describe it as a burning pain on his hands that feel
like knives are slicing him, slicing him across his forehead, down his tummy and
down his legs - you feel powerless and you don't know how to help," she said.
"It's absolutely heart-wrenching."

Ian Stedman has Muckle-Wells Syndrome, characterized by full-body rashes, fevers
and joint pain, and said he had made 176 visits to the doctor before he was 18.
He didn't get a proper diagnosis until the age of 32, when he noticed his
daughter experiencing similar symptoms and started researching conditions on his
own, he said.

Stedman said he and his three-year-old daughter are some of the lucky
rare-disease sufferers because there is treatment available for them, but he
hopes Harris's proposed committee could find a way to help more people get
proper diagnoses.

Harris's motion will be debated Feb. 25.

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 Metroland Media Group Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              149 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                 therecord.com

                            November 23, 2015 Monday

Kitchener-Conestoga MPP Harris proposes Ontario all-party committee on
rare-disease treatment

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 623 words


TORONTO - A woman whose immune system is attacking her body's cells - one of
only about 30 people in Ontario with the condition. A mother who took her
children to the United States so they could regain some mobility lost due to
their rare connective tissue disorder. A man whose rare condition went
undiagnosed for 32 years until he took research into his own hands.

Those three people came to the Ontario legislature Monday as representatives of
the recent wave of rare-disease sufferers who had pleaded with the government
for help, and who are now looking for a comprehensive strategy.

Michael Harris, Progressive Conservative MPP for Kitchener-Conestoga, said a new
group of people with rare diseases could easily show up at the legislature every
week, or maybe even every day.

"(Their concerns) are all different, whether it be out-of-province coverage, a
pharmaceutical, a proper diagnosis," he said.

The government will typically respond to the concerns with measures that could
include a review or funding for a new drug, Harris said. But he's now calling
for an all-party committee to form a comprehensive strategy rather than a
"piecemeal approach."

Jennifer Hamilton is one of about 30 people in Ontario with atypical hemolytic
uremic syndrome, or aHUS, a life-threatening condition in which the immune
system attacks the body's cells, damaging blood vessels.

Ontario recently started providing interim funding for Soliris, a drug estimated
to cost between $500,000 and $700,000 annually per patient, but Hamilton said
she doesn't qualify.

Health Minister Eric Hoskins said, of about 23 applications for Soliris funding,
the province has approved 10 and is reviewing another three.

He applauded Harris for his advocacy on behalf of rare-disease sufferers, but
wouldn't say yet if the Liberal government will support the motion. Hoskins
noted Ontario is already co-chairing a national committee looking at the same
subject, which will report to the health ministers' meeting in January.

It's important for all parties to be involved in a strategy, he said, singling
out Alexion, the maker of Soliris.

"The patented medicine prices review board has made a ruling and determined that
in their view Alexion, the prices that they're charging in Canada are
appreciably higher than in other jurisdictions, including the United States, and
Alexion's response has been to sue the federal government," Hoskins said.

The company challenged the federal board's authority to order a reduction to
prices, saying that it intrudes upon provincial jurisdiction and that the price
of Soliris has not increased since being introduced to Canada in 2009, nor
decreased in other countries.

Chantelle Willson, a nurse and mother of four from Brantford, said her husband
and two of her children have been diagnosed with Ehlers-Danlos Syndrome, a
hereditary connective-tissue disorder.

"To hear your five-year-old describe it as a burning pain on his hands that feel
like knives are slicing him, slicing him across his forehead, down his tummy and
down his legs - you feel powerless and you don't know how to help," she said.
"It's absolutely heart-wrenching."

Ian Stedman has Muckle-Wells Syndrome, characterized by full-body rashes, fevers
and joint pain, and said he had made 176 visits to the doctor before he was 18.
He didn't get a proper diagnosis until the age of 32, when he noticed his
daughter experiencing similar symptoms and started researching conditions on his
own, he said.

Stedman said he and his three-year-old daughter are some of the lucky
rare-disease sufferers because there is treatment available for them, but he
hopes Harris's proposed committee could find a way to help more people get
proper diagnoses.

Harris's motion will be debated Feb. 25.

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 Metroland Media Group Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              150 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                 therecord.com

                            November 23, 2015 Monday

Kitchener-Conestoga MPP Harris proposes Ontario all-party committee on
rare-disease treatment

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 623 words


TORONTO - A woman whose immune system is attacking her body's cells - one of
only about 30 people in Ontario with the condition. A mother who took her
children to the United States so they could regain some mobility lost due to
their rare connective tissue disorder. A man whose rare condition went
undiagnosed for 32 years until he took research into his own hands.

Those three people came to the Ontario legislature Monday as representatives of
the recent wave of rare-disease sufferers who had pleaded with the government
for help, and who are now looking for a comprehensive strategy.

Michael Harris, Progressive Conservative MPP for Kitchener-Conestoga, said a new
group of people with rare diseases could easily show up at the legislature every
week, or maybe even every day.

"(Their concerns) are all different, whether it be out-of-province coverage, a
pharmaceutical, a proper diagnosis," he said.

The government will typically respond to the concerns with measures that could
include a review or funding for a new drug, Harris said. But he's now calling
for an all-party committee to form a comprehensive strategy rather than a
"piecemeal approach."

Jennifer Hamilton is one of about 30 people in Ontario with atypical hemolytic
uremic syndrome, or aHUS, a life-threatening condition in which the immune
system attacks the body's cells, damaging blood vessels.

Ontario recently started providing interim funding for Soliris, a drug estimated
to cost between $500,000 and $700,000 annually per patient, but Hamilton said
she doesn't qualify.

Health Minister Eric Hoskins said, of about 23 applications for Soliris funding,
the province has approved 10 and is reviewing another three.

He applauded Harris for his advocacy on behalf of rare-disease sufferers, but
wouldn't say yet if the Liberal government will support the motion. Hoskins
noted Ontario is already co-chairing a national committee looking at the same
subject, which will report to the health ministers' meeting in January.

It's important for all parties to be involved in a strategy, he said, singling
out Alexion, the maker of Soliris.

"The patented medicine prices review board has made a ruling and determined that
in their view Alexion, the prices that they're charging in Canada are
appreciably higher than in other jurisdictions, including the United States, and
Alexion's response has been to sue the federal government," Hoskins said.

The company challenged the federal board's authority to order a reduction to
prices, saying that it intrudes upon provincial jurisdiction and that the price
of Soliris has not increased since being introduced to Canada in 2009, nor
decreased in other countries.

Chantelle Willson, a nurse and mother of four from Brantford, said her husband
and two of her children have been diagnosed with Ehlers-Danlos Syndrome, a
hereditary connective-tissue disorder.

"To hear your five-year-old describe it as a burning pain on his hands that feel
like knives are slicing him, slicing him across his forehead, down his tummy and
down his legs - you feel powerless and you don't know how to help," she said.
"It's absolutely heart-wrenching."

Ian Stedman has Muckle-Wells Syndrome, characterized by full-body rashes, fevers
and joint pain, and said he had made 176 visits to the doctor before he was 18.
He didn't get a proper diagnosis until the age of 32, when he noticed his
daughter experiencing similar symptoms and started researching conditions on his
own, he said.

Stedman said he and his three-year-old daughter are some of the lucky
rare-disease sufferers because there is treatment available for them, but he
hopes Harris's proposed committee could find a way to help more people get
proper diagnoses.

Harris's motion will be debated Feb. 25.

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 Metroland Media Group Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              151 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                     The Capital Times (Madison, Wisconsin)

                             July 7, 2010 Wednesday
                                  ALL EDITION

AMAZING GRACE;
PAULA SHAL REFUSES TO LET THE CHALLENGES OF LIVING WITH A RARE DISEASE GET HER
DOWN

BYLINE: Shawn Doherty

SECTION: THE CAP TIMES; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1653 words


Paula Shal has a rare disease most of us have never heard of: cystinosis. Only
500 or 600 people in the U.S. and perhaps 2,000 worldwide are afflicted by the
metabolic disorder, which results in damaging accumulations of an amino acid
called cystine in muscles, eyes, kidneys and other organs. Symptoms vary, but
can include sensitivity to light, short stature and impaired kidney function.

Diagnosed at the age of 17, Shal today is an outgoing 39-year-old who juggles
the demands of being a full-time supervisor with American Girl and a volunteer
at a nonprofit cystinosis organization with the ups and downs of having a major
illness. She makes it her mission to spread the word about what life is like
with a rare disease. "There's no path out there," she says. "I am a
pioneer."Cystinosis can be treated but not cured. It is painful. Shal has had
four kidney transplants so far. Some days all she can do is curl up in bed at
the home she shares in Waunakee with her husband, Jim Shal. It is lonely. She
knows of just a few others in Wisconsin who have the illness, mostly children,
and is in touch with only a handful of adults around the world still living with
it. And it is scary. "I feel like I'm living on borrowed time," she says.

A disease is classified as rare in the U.S. if fewer than 200,000 people have
it. At last count, 7,000 such disorders were registered in a data bank kept by
the National Institutes of Health. About 30 million Americans suffer from one of
these curious disorders, or nearly one out of every 10 Americans: Rare diseases,
Shal points out, are a lot more common than most people realize.

Some sound like they are straight out of Dr. Seuss: cat eye syndrome (a
chromosomal disorder that leads to missing tissue in the eye's iris); Jumping
Frenchmen of Maine syndrome (an exaggerated reaction to unexpected noises or
sights); blue diaper syndrome (a metabolic disorder leading to bluish urine);
prune belly syndrome (symptoms include a lack of abdominal muscles). Others
could be out of Harry Potter: porphyria (a group of enzyme disorders resulting
in purple urine) and alkaptonuria (a genetic disorder leading to a buildup of
pigmentation.)

Sometimes conditions once classified as rare, like autism, become all too
common. Others strike an unlucky few. A new disease called Sakati syndrome,
named like many of these illnesses after its discoverer, a Syrian physician, has
one known case study in the entire world - a young boy in the Middle East, says
Mary Dunkle, vice president of communications for the National Organization for
Rare Disorders, a nonprofit organization established in 1983 to help boost
awareness and research funding for these disorders.

A key challenge, Dunkle says, is persuading pharmaceutical companies and
universities to develop treatments for rare diseases given the few patients -
and profits. In 1983, NORD helped pass the Orphan Drug Act, which provides
incentives to companies that develop such drugs. Rare diseases are called orphan
diseases, Dunkle explains, because for so long patients have been "abandoned and
forgotten."

When rare diseases do become more familiar, it is often thanks to celebrities
coming down with them. One example is amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, a
progressive neurodegenerative disease leading to paralysis and death. Today the
illness is well known as Lou Gehrig's disease, after the beloved baseball star
felled by it. In 2003, Guillain-Barre syndrome received a welcome dose of
publicity when researchers announced that it was probably this auto-immune
disease, and not polio, that struck Franklin Roosevelt in the prime of his life,
leaving him in a wheelchair.

But most rare diseases, and patients like Shal, remain stuck in relative
obscurity, which can make diagnosis and treatment a challenge.

When Shal was growing up in tiny Byron, Ill., about the only clue something was
wrong was that she was the smallest child in class. And the sun bothered her
eyes - so much so that sometimes her older brother needed to lead her to school.
When she was 10, a routine urine test came back out of whack. The family doctor
sent her to a specialist in Rockford, who blamed her failing kidneys on sore
throats and ear infections. "I knew there was something more wrong," recalls
Shal's mother, Jan Frye, who worked as a school secretary. "I just felt that
they were missing something."

One study found that one in seven patients with rare disorders goes undiagnosed
for more than six years. On average, an accurate diagnosis can take nearly three
years - which delays treatment. There is an expression in medical school: "If
you hear hoof beats, don't think of zebras. Think of horses." When there is a
more exotic problem, many doctors have a hard time admitting it, says Dr.
William Gahl, head of the Undiagnosed Diseases Program at the National
Institutes of Health. "Physicians feel badly when they don't know what the
diagnosis is and have to reveal their ignorance," Gahl says. "And that colors
their relationship with the patient and the patient's family. They are sort of
grasping for straws."Shal's dad, a truck driver, and Frye watched in frustration
as Shal became sicker and weaker in high school. Sports were out of the
question. Her hands became so wasted she could no longer play the piano. She had
trouble swallowing. Ever her vocal chords were affected; she could barely be
heard in school plays. When her weight dropped to 72 pounds and her kidneys were
functioning at 10 percent of what they should be, the specialist referred Shal
to Madison for a transplant. "I was like, 'Thank God,'" her mother recalls.
Finally they could get some real answers.

Frye donated a kidney to her daughter. After the transplant, an eye doctor at
the hospital detected telltale crystals in Shal's eyes. Frye recalls that her
daughter came into her hospital room "bouncing like a little ball" immediately
afterward. "Mom," she said. "I have a diagnosis!"About one in every 100,000 to
200,000 people are born with cystinosis, a genetic disorder characterized by the
impaired transport of the amino acid cystine out of the body's cells. Cystine
then crystallizes in these cells, slowly destroying eyes, kidneys, liver,
muscles, pancreas, brain, and even white blood cells. The disease primarily
affects children; without treatment, most will develop end-stage renal failure
by age 9 or 10. Shal's late onset of the disease was unusual, says Gahl, who has
treated Shal and close to half of the patients in the U.S. suffering from the
rare ailment.

Gahl treats patients who suffer from other rare diseases, too. Cystinosis used
to be a "death sentence," he says, but today treatments can control, if not yet
cure, the disease. "I enjoy seeing these patients now," he says, "because I
actually know something about cystinosis. For a lot of the other stuff, I don't
know what I'm talking about."Shal has found few doctors in Wisconsin who have
seen other patients with cystinosis. As a teen, she needed to fly out to
Maryland for treatment, where Gahl gave her an experimental drug called Cystagon
that she still takes every six hours. Today Shal can order the drug, which has
been approved by the FDA, by mail from a Pennsylvania pharmacy that specializes
in medicine for rare diseases. But she still needs to fly out to the East Coast
every other year or so for eye drops, since they are considered experimental.

The disease has lead to a nasty tangle of complications, including kidney
failure. In addition to the kidney she received from her mom, her brother, her
husband and a colleague have also been organ donors. She needs to give herself
four shots a day of insulin to treat diabetes caused by the steroids she takes
to prevent her body from rejecting her latest transplanted kidney. Altogether,
she estimates she takes around 40 pills, plus supplements, a day. "She's little,
but she's mighty," says her mom.

But more difficult than the physical challenges, Shal says, was the loneliness.
She dreaded telling dates why she didn't want to grab a bite to eat, afraid that
if she explained she had a weird disease that made swallowing hard "they
wouldn't want to deal with all my issues." Then she met Jim. "It's just made us
closer," he says. They got married in 2000; two years later, he gave her a
kidney. "It was the most fulfilling thing I've ever done," he recalls. "To help
save not just a life, but the life of someone I love."The Internet helps many
with rare diseases feel less isolated. Shal puts together newsletters and
monitors the website for the Cystinosis Research Network, a nonprofit advocacy
group. She keeps in touch online with 200 people with cystinosis around the
world, though mostly she networks with parents, since patients tend to be
children. She can count adult survivors like her on one hand, she says. There's
a man in his 40s who lives in Texas. A woman close to her in age with similar
symptoms in Australia. And a brother and sister with the disease in Seattle.
There were others, but "a lot of them are gone now," she says.

She tries not to let it get her down. "My motto is, if I complain, I'm just
wasting precious time when I could be doing something fun," she says.

Like spending time with her husband and their three dogs, she says. Or exploring
local antique stores and going to baseball games. Or traveling. Her doctors say
this zest for life helps her overcome the challenges of a rare disease as much
as anything they can do for her. "She takes advantage of all that life has to
offer instead of worrying about her illness," says Dr. Byran Becker, her UW
transplant surgeon.

Last year, while waiting for her most recent transplant, Shal needed to go on
dialysis. On her way home from the grueling treatments, she stopped at nurseries
to shop for flowers. She planted black-eyed Susans, daisies and phlox in her
backyard. This summer, she says, she is feeling healthy again. And her garden is
in bloom.

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: MICHELLE STOCKER/THE CAPITAL TIMES Diagnosed at 17 with cystinosis, a
rare disease, Paula Shal has had four kidney transplants but still manages to
juggle a busy professional and personal life. Paula Shal takes about 40 pills,
plus supplements, a day to manage her disorder.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2010 Madison Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              152 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                 Leigh Journal

                              April 7, 2017 Friday

Mum fears seven-year-old with rare genetic disorder will be denied potentially
life-saving medicine

BYLINE: James Mutch

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 435 words


A MUM fears her seven-year-old daughter with an incurable genetic disorder will
be denied medicine to extend and improve her quality of life following a policy
change at the NHS.

Jessica Stringer, of Holden Road, Leigh, was diagnosed with Hurler syndrome when
she was just four months old.

The rare condition causes progressive mental deficiency, liver and spleen
enlargement, dwarfism and unique facial features, with death caused by organ
damage frequently occurring by the age of 10.

With only 110 people in the UK having Hurler syndrome it qualifies as an 'ultra-
rare disease'.

Less new drugs and medicines for such conditions will be available through the
NHS following a joint consultation between NHS England and The National
Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE).

A new policy has been adopted whereby the more medicine costs, the greater the
health benefit it must provide in order to be approved for routine NHS use.

Megan claims this will prevent Jessica from being eligible for new medicines
developed for Hurler syndrome sufferers.

The 25-year-old mum-of-three said: "It is absolutely heartbreaking that I may
have to tell my daughter she can't have a new medicine which might make her
better or even cure her condition.

"Since she was born Jessica has taken 70 to 80 different medicines to help her
manage her condition so this NHS review and the changes are bound to affect
her."

Also known as MPS I, Hurler syndrome is caused by a deficiency of an enzyme
responsible for breaking down sugar in certain cells.

It led to Leigh Central Primary School pupil Jessica suffering heart failure as
a baby and having a bone marrow transplant when she was eight months old.

She has to spend most of her time in a wheelchair but Megan says her oldest
child's condition is 'stable at the moment' and that she is 'very determined and
always smiling'.

Voluntary support group MPS Society has set up an online petition asking for
people to oppose the NHS' new policy for medicines for ultra-rare diseases.

More than 4,000 people have signed it.

MPS Society chairman Paul Moody said "The decision by NICE and NHS England to
implement this new policy in just two-and-half weeks will affect the most
vulnerable people in the UK.

"It confirms that children and young adults with ultra-rare diseases are
economic pawns in a failing NHS."

John Stewart, NHS England director for specialised commissioning, said:
"Spending on drugs is now going up more than three times faster than the NHS
budget so NICE is right to allow price negotiation for potentially budget
busting new drugs."

To sign the petition visit bit.ly/2nETuiM.

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2017 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              153 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          The Calgary Herald (Alberta)

                            August 13, 2013 Tuesday
                                 Early Edition

Family 'elated' with drug funding; Province to pay cost of medicine for rare
condition

BYLINE: Sarah O'Donnell, Postmedia News

SECTION: TOP NEWS; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 758 words

DATELINE: EDMONTON


St. Albert father Dane Sadownyk picked up his three-yearold daughter Aleena and
"just hugged her" Monday morning when the family learned the Alberta government
will fund a crucial treatment for her rare medical condition.

"It was an extremely emotional moment," Sadownyk said. "I was so elated. It felt
like I could come up for a breath of air. That's what it felt like, that I can
breathe again."

Aleena's family and their supporters have been lobbying Alberta Health for a
month to approve treatment for Maroteaux-Lamy Syndrome, a rare disease that
means she lacks glycosaminoglycan, an enzyme that helps break down cellular
waste.

Instead, the waste builds up, restricting movements, damaging organs and
clouding eyesight, among other serious health complications.

Without treatment, sufferers see their life expectancy cut short. Naglazyme, a
synthetic enzyme approved in the U.S. but not Canada, can help break down that
cellular buildup.

Though not a cure, weekly infusions could help prevent Aleena's symptoms from
getting worse, the family's supporters say.

Four other provinces have agreed to fund the treatment for seven children with
the syndrome - also known as mucopolysaccharidosis type VI or MPS VI - and
Aleena's family was pushing Alberta to quickly approve the expensive but
critical treatment, which is expected to initially cost about $300,000 a year.

Sadownyk, who was in Connecticut Monday with his family attending a conference
on MPS VI when they heard the news, said they are feeling immense relief. Aleena
was diagnosed with MPS VI in April.

"Today is definitely a day we are joyful for her and look forward to the
future," he said.

Andrew McFayden, director of the Isaac Foundation, went through a similar
struggle in Ontario when his son Isaac was diagnosed with MPS VI as a toddler
and was the first to receive treatment in Canada. He stepped in to assist the
Sadownyks with their case and said he shared their feeling of elation Monday.

But McFayden also said the happiness is mixed with frustration that it took so
long and that the family's supporters felt they had to mount a public campaign
with the support of MLAs such as Wildrose health critic Heather Forsyth, after
the family's original funding application through the Alberta Rare Disease
Program was denied.

"We've gone through this numerous times," McFayden said. "To me, that's a big
problem there still hasn't been a process put in place by Health Canada for
provinces to deal with funding these rare diseases."

Health Minister Fred Horne said Monday he signed offon the funding for Aleena's
treatment through Alberta's Short Term Evaluative Drug Therapy program, instead
of the Rare Disease program, because Aleena's case involves a drug not licensed
for sale in Canada.

Horne said he weighed several factors, including the clinical evidence, the
rarity of the disease, affordability of the drug and the best interest of the
patient. Public pressure was not one of those factors, he said.

"I think Albertans would expect their minister and government to make these
decisions based on evidence and looking at each case individually," Horne said.

"I'm pleased it's able to be a positive outcome in this particular case. But
these kinds of situations are becoming more common in Canada and it's because we
have more drugs coming out every day and more and more of these drugs are geared
to rare diseases."

Horne said he plans to talk about the need for an orphan drug program - a term
used to describe medications for rare diseases - with other provincial health
ministers and federal Health Minister Rona Ambrose.

"It's an issue where we really need to collaborate," Horne said. "There are only
going to be more of these situations in the future."

Forsyth, MLA for Calgary-Fish Creek, said Alberta Health must work to make the
provincial system easier to navigate for families who suddenly find themselves
seeking help with a rare condition.

"The whole thing is just convoluted," said Forsyth, who said she was overwhelmed
to hear Aleena will receive treatment.

"I think they have to simplify things and make it easier for the public to
understand."

NDP health critic Dave Eggen said Alberta Health also needs to speed up the
process.

"I'm glad something moved," the Edmonton-Calder MLA said. "But in the future I
don't want to see people's health compromised by being run through the wringer
again."

With Aleena's funding approved, the Sadownyks' next learning curve will be tied
to her treatment.

"This is something that is new territory for us," her father said. "We'll
learn."

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The Canadian Press; Aleena Sadownyk has Maroteaux-Lamy syndrome, a
condition that affects her body's ability to break down cellular waste.
Medication for the condition currently costs about $300,000 per year.;

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2013 The Calgary Herald, a division of Canwest MediaWorks Publication
                                      Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              154 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                         Daily Dispatch (South Africa)

                             March 1, 2014 Saturday
                           saturday dispatch Edition

Triumphing against odds to help others

BYLINE: Poppy Louw; Katharine Child

SECTION: HUMAN INTEREST

LENGTH: 607 words


By
 IT IS hard not to act awkwardly when first meeting 18-year-old hip-hop dancer
Oscar von Memerty because he looks like a five-year-old.
 He is only 113cm tall.
 But it takes only a few minutes listening to him joking and speaking with his
hands to forget his tiny stature.


 When he gives motivational talks, he is quick to quip to the women in the
audience: "I'm 18 - and that means I'm legal."
 Oscar has Maroteaux Lamy syndrome, a disease that only he and one other person
are known to suffer from.
 A second bone marrow transplant halted the worsening of his condition but he
will always be tiny.
 Oscar, who is studying for his matric with a private tutor, dances for a
marketing company in Johannesburg.
 He is the son of entertainer and co-host of SA's Got Talent, Ian von Memerty.
 He has been performing hip-hop dance moves at schools to raise money for the
Rare Diseases Society of SA to help patients cover their huge medical expenses.

 During his talks, Oscar tells school pupils that people with rare diseases want
to be treated like everyone else.
  "They're normal."
 He rips off his shirt in dance performances to show people his rippling
six-pack.
 "Short can be sexy," he said.
 Kelly du Plessis, founder of the Rare Diseases Society, enlisted Oscar for his
dancing skills to help raise awareness of the NGO's work.
 Yesterday was Rare Disease Day.
 Du Plessis said more than 350-million people around the world suffer from 7000
rare diseases.
 Though one in 10 people are estimated to have a rare disease, there is no rare
disease registry in South Africa.
 Oscar is not the only South African with the distinction of having a disease
that no one else in the country has.
 Having previously given birth to two sons, Cape Town mother Aneesa Hendricks,
30, immediately noticed something peculiar about her newborn baby, Riyaaz.
 "He looked different and was much darker than his older brothers.
 "He was not picking up weight the way a healthy baby should."
 Riyaaz's first 10 days were filled with visits to specialists as his mother
desperately tried to find out what was wrong with her son.
 Less than two months later, Hendricks's worst nightmare came to life as doctors
diagnosed her son as having pseudohypoaldosteronism type 1 (PHA1) - a rare
condition characterised by the inability to adequately regulate the amount of
sodium in the body.
 Now three years old, Riyaaz has to have five litres of fluid transfused into
his body every day and needs about 20 nappy changes a day.
 His mother said: "It is very difficult. I can't do anything or go anywhere
without him because he needs constant supervision."
 There are an estimated 53 PHA1 patients worldwide.
 Doctors say Riyaaz is the only South African known to have the disease.
 It costs R3000 a month to feed three-year-old Riyaaz through a gastrostomy
tube, which is inserted through his abdomen and into his stomach.
 Nappies cost another R1200 a month.
 Von Memerty now lives a normal life but has had many operations to straighten
his legs and is waiting for a second cornea transplant.
 Does the short teenager have his eyes on girls?
 "Of course I have my eyes on girls. They are beautiful," he said.
 But he admits that teenagers aren't lining up to date him.
 "I think I'd have to date an older woman," he said. "Teenagers worry too much
about what people think."


 To get in touch with the Rare Disease Society, contact Kelly du Plessis on
072-476-7552.
 LIVING LARGE: Despite having the extremely rare disease Maroteaux-Lamy syndrome
, Oscar von Memerty has mastered hip-hop dance and gives motivational talks on
how to rise above one's circumstances Pictures: DANIEL BORN

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: Daily Dispatch


                    Copyright 2014 BDFM Publishers PTY Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              155 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                              July 25, 2016 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Why you can make your GP feel dizzy;
The Surgery ; DOCTOR'S DIARY

BYLINE: Michael Fitzpatrick

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 691 words


Having a rare disease imposes a burden on patients, and a strain on the
doctor-patient relationship. As Philippa Thomson observes in her book A Hole in
My Life: Battling Chronic Dizziness, the suffering caused by the condition is
compounded by "psychological despair, lack of therapeutic hope and the absence
of practical support".

She should know, because she has two very rare head conditions. Superior
Semicircular Canal Syndrome, first identified in 1998, is caused by a thinning
of the temporal bone over the inner ear. The resulting "holes" lead to
dizziness, vertigo, autophony (hearing self-generated noises, such as a
heartbeat, unusually loudly), hearing loss, headache and fatigue. The syndrome
is often associated with symptoms of anxiety; Thomson has a long history of
panic attacks.

Following an unsuccessful operation, Thomson then developed Parasympathetic
Hypersensitivity Syndrome. This recently recognised complication of inner-ear
surgery causes excessive secretion of tears, nasal discharge and saliva. The
author embarked upon a further exhausting round of consultations with doctors,
and uncomfortable scans and investigations. This quest culminated in more
operations, including some in the US.

The writer and surgeon Atul Gawande has said that, for a doctor, "nothing is
more threatening to who you think you are than a patient with a problem you
cannot solve". Thomson records a long series of unsatisfactory experiences with
doctors, confirming Gawande's acknowledgement that "all too often, medicine
fails the people it is supposed to help".

She reports meeting numerous health professionals with varying skills in
communication and capacities for empathy. One point emerges from her experiences
in the UK and the US. Whereas British consultants are often aloof or
patronising, she found in the US a greater "openness, a willingness to share
knowledge, and a genuine desire to help".

A Hole In My Life is "aimed at everyone who may experience dizziness, in all its
manifestations, and who needs a better understanding of what might be happening
to them". It also makes challenging but useful reading for all those who care
for people with rare conditions - and, indeed, for all those who complain of
dizziness, which is quite common in GP surgeries as well as ENT clinics.

Incorrect labelling The shock of the referendum result for those committed to
the Remain camp continues to echo through the nation's surgeries and counselling
rooms. Many people are seeking professional therapeutic help to deal with their
symptoms of anger, anxiety and depression.

A more insidious feature is the trend for explaining political differences in
terms of psychopathology. Thus those who voted for Brexit are believed to be in
the grip of "xenophobia", rather than taking a different position in relation to
the EU and its immigration policies.

The current vogue for the diagnosis of psychological disorder in political
opponents follows earlier controversies in which people who opposed gay marriage
were dismissed as "homophobic", and those who criticised the Muslim faith as
"Islamophobic".

Given the inflation of psychiatric diagnosis, it is no wonder that doctors and
therapists are overstretched. Perhaps a more parsimonious use of diagnostic
labels would benefit both political debate and mental health services.

Turkish delight In a fascinating commentary on the attempted coup in Turkey, the
historian Norman Stone attributes the apparent popularity of president Recep
Tayyip Erdogan to the impact of reforms in the health service.

According to Stone, who moved his academic base from Oxford to Ankara years ago,
the regime has "used computers in hospitals to turn doctors into anonymous
technicians and reduce their salaries, while giving poor peasants - the Turks
are hypochondriacs - huge bags of pills."

The result is that "Erdogan gets enormous support". Like Erdogan, our Health
Secretary Jeremy Hunt too has survived a period of intense political turbulence.
Have we also discovered the secret of his success? James LeFanu is away

'Whereas British consultants were aloof or patronising, she found in the US a
genuine desire to help'

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Having a rare disease can strain the doctor-patient relationshipGETTY
IMAGES

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2016 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              156 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                        Sunshine Coast Weekender Weekly

                           February 20, 2010 Saturday
                                   1 Edition

COVER STORY RARE COURAGE

BYLINE: Juliana Kerr

SECTION: WEEKENDER; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1158  words


It's every parent's worst nightmare: a child suffering in the grips of a disease
that has no name. Where do they go and what do they do? Three parents who have
faced this issue tell their story to JULIANA KERR

Although the issues they're dealing with are very different, the introduction of
a rare disease into their lives has united three women - Emily Barker, Kelli
Costa and Meagan Ross.

Together, they hope to raise the profile of those suffering from rare diseases
and to help put some support structures in place for those who don't know where
to turn.

The first step in their plan is the second annual Rare Disease Day Walk on
February 28. The walk starts at 9am at the Cairns Esplanade Lagoon. Walkers will
head to the Pirate Ship and then back to the Salt House for prize draws and a
barbecue lunch. Bring a gold coin donation to support the Smile Foundation.

ETHAN BARKER, 6, DRAVET'S SYNDROME

For Emily Barker, the challenge is keeping six-year-old son Ethan safe, healthy
and occupied.

Ethan has Dravet's Syndrome (severe myoclonic epilepsy). Emily says this is not
typical epilepsy, but more a neurodegenerative condition. Ethan started having
seizures in the first months of his life. Although his development was quite
normal up to about age three, Emily says his seizures became more frequent and
more severe until he was finally diagnosed when he was four.

"There's no treatment and there's no cure," Emily says. "His cognitive function
and physical abilities will keep deteriorating. But he's doing really well. He
shouldn't be this fit for his age."

Emily says she had to keep fighting to get a diagnosis, pushing for more scans
and more testing. It wasn't easy, but she's glad she did it.

"It was worth getting a definite diagnosis," she says. "Having a firm diagnosis
means you aren't letting something go on that could be treatable. And it means
you can focus on where to next. At the moment, it's about keeping him happy and
safe. Ethan has no concept of fear. He is a bright child if he's stimulated
enough."

Emily says there is a real lack of special schools in Cairns and that causes a
lot of problems for everyone involved.

"Every school's suffering the same problem," she says. "They can't provide the
one-on-one support the kids need and it isn't fair to take that attention away
from the otherkids."

Emily says it can be incredibly difficult to get the answers you need when
you're dealing with a raredisease.

"For a lot of people, it's very isolating," she says. "You feel like you really
have to do battle with your doctor. You have to get the information yourself or
else you tend to get politely sent home."

WILLOW, INFANT, Hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis (HLH)

Kelli Costa's daughter, Willow, was only 13 days old when she died of a rare
immune disorder called Hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis (HLH). Kelli became
"the Google queen" in her search to understand what had happened to her
beautiful daughter.

"For my peace of mind, I had to understand why," she says. "I wanted to know
everything."

Kelli eventually learned that she and her husband are each missing the same
gene, which is rare in itself. Willow was born without that gene and it meant
her immune system couldn't form properly. It was fighting her instead of
protecting her.

Signs of trouble began with a fever. Doctors noticed her blood wouldn't clot. By
the time Willow was just five days old, her tiny liver was failing. She was sent
to Townsville and then to Brisbane, where the diagnosis was first mentioned. The
parents didn't receive the final results until five weeks after Willow's death.

A bone marrow transplant would have been the treatment for the condition, but
Willow was too young. She was started on chemotherapy but there was too much
going on and her body was giving up.

Kelli has been trying to understand what happened ever since, and looking for
some way to avoid it happening again. She has spent hours researching in her
quest for answers and hopes her experience might help someone else facing the
same condition.

"I found it hard," she says. "I had to use information from America. There
wasn't much information in Australia at all. Being in Cairns made it even harder
- they have not much idea here. So you hope you get a doctor that's willing to
fight and you never take no for an answer. You do research and understand it as
best you can."

Kelli says she's lucky. She kept pushing until a geneticist in Brisbane told her
she would be able to be tested prenatally at week 11 once she falls pregnant
again. This test will determine if the gene in question is present or not. She
and her husband hope to try again in the near future. In the meantime, she hopes
her own story will help raise awareness of rare diseases and the obstacles faced
by those who deal with them.

"When you're going through it, you would know there's someone else going through
it too," she says. "That would be a big support."

Molly Cross, 2 , diagnosed with Angelman Syndrome

When her daughter, Molly, now two and a half, was diagnosed with Angelman
Syndrome, Meagan Cross didn't know where to go for information or help.

She was distressed to discover there was no central body for rare diseases in
Australia. It is her hope that raising awareness about the not-so-rare instances
of rare diseases will lead to the creation of a database or resources that could
be accessed by those seeking answers.

"I think for anything to happen it takes a community effort," she says. "If we
get more people in this year and people in other places thinking we can do this
too in our own communities, maybe, the Government will get involved. I suppose
you get desperate too, looking for an answer. They need support and that's what
the walk is about - support and awareness."

Angelman Syndrome is a neurological-genetic disorder that can be characterised
by global development delays and severe speech impairment. Although some
individuals with AS develop functional speech, most communicate through a
mixture of gestures, eye contact, adaptive sign language and augmentative
communication.

Meagan says they first knew there was a problem when Molly wasn't meeting her
developmental milestones by about six months of age. It took six months to find
answers in the form of a diagnosis.

"We're lucky Molly's health isn't more severely affected," she says. "There are
a lot of people who don't even have time to look for answers and support. That
would be my ultimate goal - a body that could offer support to people whatever
the condition. I'd be happy if they'd start with some kind of taskforce. It's a
big group of people but they're individual minorities."

In the hopes of helping others facing a rare disease, Meagan has launched a
website, www.mollysvoice.org, to share stories and experiences that may assist
others with finding answers.

For more information on the Rare Disease Day Walk or how you can get involved in
raising awareness, email meags@mollysvoice.org or phone 0419 545 521.

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: TWE


                   Copyright 2010 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              157 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                                The Toronto Star

                    December 4, 1998, Friday, METRO EDITION

Internet sites offer help

BYLINE: By Patricia Anstett SPECIAL TO THE STAR DETROIT FREE PRESS

SECTION: LIFE.health; Pg. F6

LENGTH: 313 words


   Vicki McCarrell solved the early problems alone. But she desperately wanted
support for the crises she knew would crop up as she raised a son with a rare
disease.

Her larger questions concerned the impact that Moebius syndrome, a disorder that
causes lifetime facial paralysis, would have on her son, Sean, as he grew up,
coping with symptoms from blinking eyes to drooling and trouble swallowing.

"When I said to the doctors that I wanted to meet other people who had this,
they told me they didn't think I'd ever find anybody," says McCarrell. "I knew
the odds were slim, but I started searching."

McCarrell read everything she could get her hands on, called authors of
scientific articles and wrote to the National Organization for Rare Disorders,
(in Canada, there's the Canadian Organization for Rare Disorders at
403-345-4544.)

The group, the best resource in the U.S. for people with rare diseases, helped
her find support groups for people with facial differences. Eleven months later,
she found Lori Thomas, whose daughter Chelsea, 10, has Moebius.

McCarrell and Thomas formed what is now the Moebius Syndrome Foundation.

Empowered by the Internet, people with rare diseases are connecting and sharing
information about their obstacles and how they have overcome them.

At members.aol.com/PACALI/index.html you'll find Carol Ferensak's way of helping
others with nail patella syndrome, a disorder that causes bone and nail
deformities and possible eye and kidney problems.

Ferensak spent her first five years in and out of plaster casts and living with
a deformed foot. Two siblings as well as her daughter have the disease.

She started the site in March 1997. Part reference tool, part electronic message
board and part friendship circle, the site receives about 175 hits a week.
DETROIT FREE PRESS

see related stories on page F6

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1998 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


                              158 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          The Decatur Daily (Alabama)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                           February 25, 2017 Saturday

Walking for Phoenix; school visits student suffering from rare disease

BYLINE: Deangelo McDaniel, The Decatur Daily, Ala.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 885 words


Feb. 25--With a soft voice and small smile, Phoenix Richey looked to the
classmates she had not seen since January and said, "I love you, too."

"It's a good day for her," mother Nicole Richey said as she wiped tears from her
face. "It's a very good day, especially when we see her smile."

A blue wave of more than 400 students from Chestnut Grove Elementary walked two
blocks to Phoenix's home Friday to wish her a happy belated birthday and to let
her know they are praying for her return.

Phoenix, who turned 9 on Wednesday, is a third-grade student at the school. In
January, she was diagnosed with Stevens-Johnsons syndrome, a rare and serious
disorder of the skin's mucous membranes. It's usually caused by a reaction to
medication or infection, according to the Mayo Clinic.

The disease begins with flu-like symptoms, which Phoenix had, followed by
painful rashes and blisters that ultimately causes the top layer of skin to die.
In some cases, the disorder can be deadly and victims look like they have been
burned, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.

"It's crazy how fast things happen," Nicole said.

The morning before Phoenix started showing signs of the disorder, the Richeys
had family pictures made. Less than 12 hours after the photo shoot, Nicole said
her daughter had a fever of more than 103 degrees.

Phoenix took over-the-counter medication, but the following morning she
complained about "how horrible her throat was feeling," her mother said. They
carried her to a local urgent care, but Phoenix tested negative for strep
throat. Nicole said a photo she made with her cellphone showed tiny rashes
behind Phoenix's ears.

On Jan. 8 at about 5:40 p.m., Phoenix was admitted to Huntsville Hospital for
Women and Children and continued to get worse, according to her parents. Nicole
said this was the first time she and her husband Joey heard the term
Stevens-Johnsons syndrome from doctors.

"We were told she might have this or toxic shock syndrome," she said.

Phoenix's outer layer of skin started to die and was peeling two days before
being admitted to Huntsville Hospital.

Nicole said there was a 24-hour period before Phoenix was diagnosed that doctors
told family they couldn't guarantee she would live more than one hour at a time.

"They told us they didn't know if she would make it," Nicole said. "My heart
sunk, but I prayed for 12 hours straight. The scariest part was how much she
changed in 24 hours."

On Jan. 12, doctors transferred Phoenix to the burn unit at Children's Hospital
of Birmingham for treatment. She stayed there a week before being moved to
Shriners Hospital for Children in Cincinnati, where she stayed until Feb. 8.

Nicole said the disorder affected between 60 and 65 percent of Phoenix's body.
Part of her skin is still in the danger zone for infection. Her emotional
recovery is now the toughest challenge, her mother said.

"So many people have reached out and are helping her with that," Nicole said.

One of them is Roosmary Spragins, who is Phoenix's third-grade teacher. Spragins
visited Nicole several times while she was in Children's Hospital.

"I was representing the entire school and I wanted Phoenix to know that," she
said.

Spragins, who usually has short hair, decided to cut her hair shorter when she
found out Phoenix was temporarily losing her hair.

"This meant a lot to Phoenix," Nicole said.

Spragins describes Phoenix as the student every teacher prays for.

"She's very mannerable and always exceeds normal expectations," Spragins said.
"Her spirit lingers, even when she's not around."

Chestnut Grove Principal Karissa Lang said Phoenix has been approved for
homebound services.

"We're going to do everything we can to make her transition to fourth grade as
smooth as possible," the principal said.

Lang said the school walked to her home Friday as a club activity because they
wanted to "let her know that we have not forgotten her."

"We talk about her every day," Lang added. "We want Phoenix and her family to
know we are here for and with them."

Nicole said she isn't sure how long it will take Phoenix to "get her pretty
brown skin back."

She said the next step after the wounds heal is to visit an immunologist for a
DNA test to try to determine what caused the disorder.

Nicole said the visit from students at the school is a "big step in the healing
process for Phoenix." She said her daughter had not seen many of her classmates
in about two months.

As students approached her home Friday, Phoenix was looking through a window
from her upstairs bedroom. It was not in the plans for her to come outside, but
family members said Phoenix ran down the stairs with a smile.

Chestnut Grove students, most carrying signs or homemade cards, sang happy
birthday as they marched onto the lawn.

"This is overwhelming and nice," Phoenix's grandfather, Pastor George Sawyer,
said as students handed the family cards. "When she saw them coming up, she
wanted to come outside and she had the biggest smile."

One of Phoenix's classmates gave her a bouquet of flowers.

"We love you, Phoenix," the student said.

"I love you, too," Phoenix responded.

deangelo@decaturdaily.com or 256-340-2469. Twitter @DD_Deangelo.

___ (c)2017 The Decatur Daily (Decatur, Ala.) Visit The Decatur Daily (Decatur,
Ala.) at www.decaturdaily.com Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20170225-DD-Walking-for-Phoenix-school-visits-student-suffering-from-
rare-disease-0225-20170225

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DD


                        Copyright 2017 The Decatur Daily


                              159 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                 Derry Journal

                              June 19, 2009 Friday

Sports-mad Eoin fights rare disease

LENGTH: 458 words



HIGHLIGHT: A Derry boy with a rare disease had his dreams come true last
weekend, thanks to a charity who transformed him into a rally driver for the
day.


12 year-old Eoin Buckley, who was diagnosed with Charge Syndrome a short time
after his birth, realised his life-long dream of becoming a rally driver after
his father James contacted the Share A Dream Foundation.

The whole family were whisked away to Ballinasloe for the weekend and everyone
got a chance to enjoy themselves, including mum Marie who spent some well-earned
relaxation time in the spa.

Charge Syndrome,, which affects roughly one in every 100,000 children has a
number of different effects including heart and renal problems, delayed puberty,
eye defects and growth problems.

"It is a really really rare disease and we haven't met anyone else in Northern
Ireland who has it," Marie told the 'Journal.' "As far as we know, Eoin is the
only one in Northern Ireland and there are only about 75 children in the UK and
Ireland as a whole."

"He was diagnosed when he was born, although he went through a year of tests to
confirm the diagnosis. When he was born he was pure black and had a big bubble
where his belly button was supposed to be. He was taken away from us almost
straight away and we were told that he only had 48 hours to live.

"He's still here 12 years later and it doesn't stop him doing what he wants to
do, although there are constant trips to the hospital."
The family were recently told Eoin has extra problems with his heart, after he
experienced chest pain and a fast heart rate. Dad James said the family need to
raise £700 for a special heart monitor so the problem can be diagnosed properly.

"Eoin is sports mad and over the past couple of years I have been contacting
football, cricket and rugby teams and boxers and they have given Eoin so much
stuff. We are going to hold a raffle to give some of it away to raise the money.
Anything extra will go to the Share A Dream Foundation, just to give them
something back for the great time we had."
The Buckley family have never been offered support for Eoin's syndrome because
it is so rare.

"Doctors here know so little about it and Eoin is usually made into a teaching
case because they may never see another case like this in their lifetime. It
does make him feel like a guinea pig sometimes, but if he can help another
family who don't know anything about Charge then so be it."

Prognosis
"We don't know what the prognosis is. Some people with Charge Syndrome live long
happy lives but others don't," Maria said. "Eoin has his problems but it doesn't
mean he will die this year or next. I am afraid of the unknown and what I could
find out about the prognosis so we just enjoy what we have.

""Eoin has such a good attitude about it all. When the doctors find something
else wrong, he just says add that to my list. We all have the same attitude and
take each day as it comes."

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DERR


                       Copyright 2009 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved


                              160 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                   Lynn News

                            September 4, 2015 Friday

North Lynn mum raises awareness of rare disease

LENGTH: 343  words


A North Lynn mother is hoping to raise awareness of the rare disease which
affects her six-year-old daughter.

Ellie-Mai Bunting was diagnosed with Blau Syndrome after her mother Victoria
Williamson had spotted fatty deposits around her wrists.

Blau Syndrome is a genetic condition which affects joints, eyes and skin.
Arthritis is a common feature of the condition.

Ellie-Mai has to undergo fortnightly injections to control the painful condition
which would prevent her from moving around.

She also has to take daily pain and anti-inflamatory drugs to help control the
condition along with other medication.

Miss Williamson said: "To look at her, you would not think there is anything
wrong. She looks like a normal child.

"When it is not controlled, Ellie-Mai is not very active because it is painful.
When she's at school, she would rather sit in the library and read a book rather
be out playing with her friends because it hurts.

"I want other parents to know what to look out for and to get it checked out.

"There are a lot of people suffering with this in the US but not many in this
country."

Two-years-ago, Miss Williamson noticed fatty deposits around Ellie-Mai's wrists.

After receiving advice from a relative, she took the youngster to the doctors.

They were then referred onto the Norfolk and Norwich University Hospital for
further tests.

A biopsy was taken of the fatty deposits from her wrists, which were found to
benign.

An ultra-sound also showed which showed her kidney, liver and spleen were
enlarged, which are other symptoms of the condition.

She was also diagnosed with having juvenile arthritis at the same time.

Since then Ellie-Mai, who attends Highgate Infant School, has also been referred
to King's College Hospital in London where she underwent a liver biopsy.

Nodules on her liver were tested and could cause problems for her in the future.

Miss Williamson said: "I was shocked with the diagnosis. We would not be at the
stage we are today without Dr Kate Almond from Norfolk and Norwich.

"The team has been there to support and help us."

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MLNF


                       Copyright 2015 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved


                              161 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                  The Leader-Times (Kittanning, Pennsylvania)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            October 6, 2011 Thursday

Kittanning family copes with rare disease

BYLINE: Mitch Fryer, The Leader Times, Kittanning, Pa.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 939 words


Oct. 06--You can't plan your life -- you make do.

Those are the words that Joe and Shelly Keys of Kittanning live by in raising
two of their children, 2-year-old McKenah and 7-month-old Josiah, who both have
the same rare disease, arthrogryposis. It affects their joints and is
characterized by facial anomalies, clenched hands, webbing, rocker bottom or
clubbed feet, respiratory issues and multiple joints that are in fixed position
that must be addressed by extensive casting, surgery and aggressive therapies to
stop it from progressing.

The Keys family "makes do" every day of their lives.

"It's hard, yes, seeing how much you've gone through and how much they're going
to be going through and you feel bad," said Shelly Keys. "But it's like, you
know what, life's more than the issues that we have. You see all the lives that
have been touched by this."

"Of course you can look and say, 'Why this or why that?,' but you know that God
has it all figured out for us," she said.

With help, the children can live a normal lifespan and reach all their mobility
goals.

Shelly is happy with the progress made by McKenah. The 2-year-old manages to do
things her own way, her mom said.

"We treat her as any normal kid," said Shelly. "If it's hard for her to crawl up
on the couch we say 'you can do it' and she does it a different way, but she
gets it done. We make it work."

"We feel blessed that God knew we were able to endure with both of them," she
said. "He has given us the strength to get through it."

The Keys have two other children, Marissa, 4, who's at home with her younger
siblings and Joe's son Jordan Waclav, 12, who lives with his mom in Ford City.

The odds of two children in the same family getting the genetic form of
arthrogryposis known as Escobar Syndrome is astronomical.

The chances of a child being born with arthrogryposis is one in 300,000. There
is a one-in-four chance a child will be born with it when both the mother and
father carry the same recessive gene. There are only 50 cases of Escobar
Syndrome and only seven families in the world that have more than one child
affected with Escobar Syndrome.

"This is the way God made them," said Joe. "God designs everybody for a reason."

The reason that the Keys had two children with the disease is because McKenah
went undiagnosed until a month before Josiah's birth.

When Shelly was pregnant with McKenah, the doctors diagnosed the unborn baby
with a different disease and gave her no chance of living.

After McKenah was born the tests came back negative.

"She was a mystery," said Shelly. "Because she is mild with arthrogryposis, all
the doctors thought she was all right and didn't figure out what she did have.
She started walking and doing everything normal. There's no genetic test for it.
You just look at their features (to diagnose it)."

For nearly two years Shelly researched the symptoms and began to focus on
arthrogryposis. She eventually asked doctors to consider it and about a month
before Josiah was born, doctors agreed that it was arthrogryposis.

When Josiah was born, they knew immediately that he also had the disease.

"If I had known that she had this and seen how severe it could be, I might have
not gotten pregnant with him," she said. "But he was meant to be."

The Keys are members of the Harvest Community Church in East Franklin.

On Saturday, the congregation is having a benefit concert to help raise funds to
be used for any unexpected costs that surface as Josiah and McKenah grow and to
help in educating the local community to this syndrome in children.

"What screams out to me about this family is their dedication to these kids,"
said Jan Hart, coordinator for the Women's Ministry at Harvest Community Church.
"When Josiah was born, he spent months in the hospital and not one day went by
that he was alone."

"These kids have a family who will do what it takes to ensure they fully reach
their physical and cognitive potential," she said. "I cannot even begin to
imagine what the labor of that statement might include, but they are determined.
They love their kids."

"We're feeling blessed that our church is doing this for us," said Shelly. "It's
really neat to see our church family come together."

Joe works as a warehouse manager and Shelly stays at home with the kids. They
get help throughout the week from visiting nurses and a nurse stays awake each
night to care for Josiah's special respiratory needs while the family gets its
sleep.

When Joe gets home from work in the afternoon, he can't wait to take some of the
work off Shelly.

"I like to have quality time with each of them," he said. "Then help with the
baths, cook dinner, whatever I have to do. She's with them more often so it's a
little more hectic for her. That's why I don't mind."

Marissa is the perfect big sister, they said. "God couldn't have given them a
better sister," said Shelly.

Joe said that all of the work and caring for the children makes them a better
family for it.

"We communicate better," said Joe. "We work together better. If definitely takes
both of us together to take care of the three of them."

"In the long run, we're going to grow as a family," he said.

Details

What: Benefit concert for the Keys family

Presented by: Harvest Community Church in East Franklin

Where: 143 Reed Road

Who: Christian rock band Splendorfield and the Harvest Worship Band

When: Saturday at 6:30 p.m.

Cost: $10 pre-order; $12 at the door; children 12 and other are free

More information: Visit here or call 724-548-5643

___ (c)2011 The Leader Times (Kittanning, Pa.) Visit The Leader Times
(Kittanning, Pa.) at www.pittsburghlive.com/x/leadertimes Distributed by MCT
Information Services

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20111006-KT-Kittanning-family-copes-with-rare-disease-1006-20111006

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: KT


                        Copyright 2011 The Leader-Times


                              162 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                 irishmirror.ie

                     January 31, 2015 Saturday 7:59 PM GMT

Investigation launched into suspected cluster of rare disease which may have
struck down six victims in ONE tiny town;
Fears after rare and fatal disease hits six locals

BYLINE: By Garreth MacNamee

SECTION: NEWS,IRISH NEWS,HEALTH

LENGTH: 381 words


An investigation has been launched into a suspected cluster of a rare disease
which may have struck down six victims in ONE tiny town.

There have already been four confirmed cases of Guillain-Barre Syndrome (GBS) in
Duleek, Co Meath, and two more men are now feared to have caught the illness.

The syndrome - which affects the nervous system - usually hits one in 100,000
people. But in Duleek, a town of just 6,000 residents, there should be only a
0.00001% chance of six people contracting the disease.

Both the HSE and the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) are investigating.
There is concern that the outbreak could be linked to environmental issues in
the area.

East Meath Fianna Fail Councillor, Stephen McKee, now wants "a full
investigation".

He said: "I understand that the condition is very rare and normally affects one
person in every 80,000 - 100,000. But four cases have now been confirmed in the
Duleek area with a population of less than 6,000 so this is of some concern.

"The last thing I want to be doing is scaremongering. The people deserve answers
to this. The odds of four people getting it and then two others might have it -
it defies the odds really. It is an issue that I raised in the chamber at last
week's local council meeting.

"I understand that the Irish Doctors Environmental Association has also raised
concerns and is supporting an investigation into the matter along with the Louth
Meath Health Protection Group. It is vital that we find out exactly what is
causing this outbreak."

A spokeswoman for the HSE said: "Representatives of the Department of Public
Health for the North East met with members of local environmental groups from
the Louth Meath area in Navan on January 28.

"Discussions focused on the groups concerns that a number of confirmed cases of
GBS that have been diagnosed in the Duleek area since 2010 were related to
environmental issues in that area.

"HSE Public Health stressed the fact that literature links a majority of
confirmed cases of GBS to a previous episode of infection, a vaccination or a
surgical intervention.

"The HSE has agreed to follow up on these cases to look at possible causes for
this apparent clustering of cases and will be meeting with the individual
patients in the near future to progress that investigation."

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBMGNIRIS


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              163 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          Inside Bay Area (California)

                             June 7, 2007 Thursday

Rare diseases hard for most docs to diagnose

BYLINE: By Suzanne Bohan, STAFF WRITER

SECTION: ARGUS

LENGTH: 1238 words


Medical students commonly hear the phrase, "If you hear hoof beats, think
horses, not zebras."

The adage reflects a core tenet of the art of medical diagnoses: It's more
productive to first assume common diseases are the cause of most patients'
symptoms, rather than exotic disorders.

That medical mindset was evident when Kaycee Antosiak, a vivacious 12-year-old
Los Altos girl, sought treatment for her crippling pain after a dog bite. While
the bite healed insix weeks, excruciating pain set in, leading the active girl
to collapse after a dance class. She then began using crutches and finally a
wheelchair. During that time, she visited dozens of medical experts, none of
whom could determine the cause of her increasing infirmity.

Three months after the dog attack, she was referred to a Stanford University
physician, Dr. Elliot Krane, who correctly diagnosed her as afflicted with a
rare genetic disease called complex regional pain syndrome. The condition causes
excruciating chronic pain, long after the generally minor injury that triggered
it healed.

"These patients think their foot is immersed in boiling water all of the time,"
said Krane, a pediatric anesthesiologist at Lucile Packard Children's Hospital,
who last week at Stanford led the first conference worldwide to seek faster
diagnoses and better treatment of the condition.

"It just ruins the lives of these kids. The typical kid is in a wheelchair,"
Krane said. Their limbs, he added, are often blue and cold to the touch from
misfiring nerve cells.

Before Kaycee visited Krane, she said, some doctors had suggested the pain was
in her head.

"I told my parents, 'I don't think I'm crazy. My ankle really hurts,'" Kaycee
recalled. Her mother, Donna Antosiak, speaks with a tone of shock at the memory
of that time.

"She was screaming, 'Mommy, mommy, it hurts, it hurts!'" said Antosiak. "I was
going out of my mind."

With the extraordinary challenge of diagnosing these uncommon conditions, and
medical training that encourages doctors to focus on familiar causes of disease,
most patients with rare disorders run through a gauntlet of doctors before --
for the lucky ones -- they end up referred to the unique physician with the
knowledge to correctly pinpoint their disorder.

"I can't think of a single patient I've seen within a month of their onset of
symptoms," Krane said.

"Sometimes it's a year and they're unable to walk," he added. Krane recognized
within minutes the disease afflicting Kaycee when he first saw her in November
2005 and immediately started her on treatment.

Although one doctor told her she'd never walk again, today the 12-year-old is
back in dance class and plans on attending several camps this summer, including
ones for acting, speech, volleyball and Irish dance. Occasionally, she said, her
ankle still aches and she's aware she's vulnerable for life from the condition,
absent the development of a treatment that permanently ends the pain.

While only a few hundred other Americans suffer from the condition, Kaycee and
others with complex regional pain syndrome are among the ranks of the 30 million
Americans suffering from one of the nearly 7,000 known rare diseases, according
to Dr. Steven Groft, director of the Office of Rare Diseases with the National
Institutes of Health. The NIH defines a rare disease as one affecting 200,000 or
fewer Americans.

They carry strange names like Madelung's Disease, which causes abnormal fat
accumulation around the neck and shoulders; Kufs Disease, a neurological
disorder that mimics a mental illness; or the horrific fibrodysplasia ossificans
progressive, which causes muscle tissue and ligaments to turn to bone, encasing
the afflicted in bone.

The prevalence of those living with these unusual conditions numerically rivals
the 40 million Americans with one or more of the three major diseases: heart
disease, cancer or diabetes.

The number of patients identified with a rare disease also is expected to swell
with expanding knowledge of the human genome, said Groft. Rare diseases are
usually attributed to genetics. In fewer cases, they're caused by infectious
agents like viruses or bacteria.

"What we're finding is that as more information becomes available, there are
more and more patients who have the rare disorder," Groft said. "With the
arrival of the Internet, people started putting the pieces together better."

And physicians committed to researching and providing treating for one of these
strange maladies often push into medical frontiers to improve the lives of their
patients.

The Stanford conference on complex regional pain syndrome, held May 30 and May
31, drew dozens of experts from a variety of disciplines. The conference yielded
a consensus paper on better diagnoses and optimal treatment for the condition,
which emphasizes physical therapy with the use of pain medications to ease the
initial agony of exercise, the same therapy Krane used with Kaycee. Krane said
the statement will be published in a leading pediatric medical journal.

These kinds of conferences are vital for improving the medical profession's
track record for diagnosing unique diseases, said Groft. And even though doctors
often have few if any treatments to offer, the diagnosis allows patients and
their families to band with others with the condition to seek the best
treatments and advocate for research.

"Many advocacy groups can help patients live a little better life," said Groft.

Furthermore, the NIH budget for rare disease research is robust, he added. Of
the $29 billion awarded by the NIH last year for medical research grants, $4
billion, or 18 percent, went to studying rare diseases. The grants often fund
clinical trials that give patients with few or no options a chance to try
potential treatments, Groft emphasized.

"That's one of the messages we'd like to get out," he said. "People can get
information on on-going clinical studies, as well as completed ones. So there
can be hope for people with rare diseases."

Krane pointed hopefully to a future in which genetic tests of blood samples will
quickly provide answers to the questions that now vex physicians encountering
patients with mysterious ailments.

"Thirty years from now," he speculated, "all that work is going to be done for
us. Someone is going to plug some blood into a gene array and the answer will
pop out."

Until and if such swift diagnoses of rare diseases come to pass, Groft said
those with disorders that defy treatment can best cope with their frustration
and fear by seeking access to specialists.

"No one can be expected to know that many disorders," he said of the rare
diseases so far identified. "We encourage patients to be referred upward in the
medical system to specialists."

Kaycee and her mother consider themselves extraordinarily fortunate to have
found Krane and to have the funds for the medical costs.

Donna Antosiak calls Krane "my favorite person in the whole wide world," while
Kaycee said she doubts she would be walking today without his treatment.

"I probably would have gone crazy from the pain," she said.

As for those with less access to sophisticated medical care or with fewer
financial resources, Kaycee shuddered to consider their fate: "I wouldn't want
to find out what happens to them," she said.

For information on NIH-approved clinical trials for treatments for rare
diseases, visit http://www.clinicaltrials.gov .

Contact Suzanne Bohan at sbohan@angnewspapers.com or (650) 348-4324.

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: KAYCEE ANTOSIAK, who in 2005 learned she has a rare disease that causes
excruciating pain even in the absence of an injury, sits in a tree in her Los
Altos backyard last week. A Stanford University doctor who specializes in
treating the disorder, called complex regional pain syndrome, helped Antosiak
recover from the debilitating condition.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2007 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                              164 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                     The Leader-Post (Regina, Saskatchewan)

                            August 13, 2013 Tuesday
                                 Early Edition

Alberta will fund girl's treatment

BYLINE: Sarah O'Donnell, Postmedia News

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. B6

LENGTH: 729 words

DATELINE: EDMONTON


St. Albert father Dane Sadownyk picked up his three-year-old daughter Aleena and
"just hugged her" Monday morning when the family learned the Alberta government
will fund a crucial treatment for her rare medical condition.

"It was an extremely emotional moment," Sadownyk said. "I was so elated. It felt
like I could come up for a breath of air. That's what it felt like, that I can
breathe again."

Aleena's family and their supporters have been lobbying Alberta Health for a
month to approve treatment for Maroteaux-Lamy Syndrome, a rare disease that
means she lacks glycosaminoglycan, an enzyme that helps break down cellular
waste.

Instead, the waste builds up, restricting movements, damaging organs and
clouding eyesight, among other serious health complications. Without treatment,
sufferers see their life expectancy cut short. Naglazyme, a synthetic enzyme
approved in the U.S. but not Canada, can help break down that cellular buildup.

Though not a cure, weekly infusions could help prevent Aleena's symptoms from
getting worse, the family's supporters say. Four other provinces have agreed to
fund the treatment for seven children with the syndrome - also known as
mucopolysaccharidosis type VI or MPS VI - and Aleena's family was pushing
Alberta to quickly approve the expensive but critical treatment, which is
expected to initially cost about $300,000 a year.

Sadownyk, who was in Connecticut Monday with his family attending a conference
on MPS VI when they heard the news, said they are feeling immense relief. Aleena
was diagnosed with MPS VI in April.

"Today is definitely a day we are joyful for her and look forward to the
future," he said.

Andrew McFayden, director of the Isaac Foundation, went through a similar
struggle in Ontario when his son Isaac was diagnosed with MPS VI as a toddler
and was the first to receive treatment in Canada. He stepped in to assist the
Sadownyks with their case and said he shared their feeling of elation Monday.

But McFayden also said the happiness is mixed with frustration that it took so
long and that the family's supporters felt they had to mount a public campaign
with the support of MLAs such as Wildrose health critic Heather Forsyth after
the family's original funding application through the Alberta Rare Disease
Program was denied.

"We've gone through this numerous times," Mc-Fayden said. "To me, that's a big
problem there still hasn't been a process put in place by Health Canada for
provinces to deal with funding these rare diseases." Health Minister Fred Horne
said Monday he signed off on the funding for Aleena's treatment through
Alberta's Short Term Evaluative Drug Therapy program, instead of the Rare
Disease program, because Aleena's case involves a drug not licensed for sale in
Canada.

Horne said he weighed several factors, including the clinical evidence, the
rarity of the disease, affordability of the drug and the best interest of the
patient. Public pressure was not one of those factors, he said.

"I think Albertans would expect their minister and government to make these
decisions based on evidence and looking at each case individually," Horne said.
"I'm pleased it's able to be a positive outcome in this particular case. But
these kinds of situations are becoming more common in Canada and it's because we
have more drugs coming out every day and more and more of these drugs are geared
to rare diseases."

Horne said he plans to talk about the need for an orphan drug program - a term
used to describe medications for rare diseases - with other provincial health
ministers and federal Health Minister Rona Ambrose.

"It's an issue where we really need to collaborate," Horne said. "There are only
going to be more of these situations in the future."

Forsyth, MLA for Calgary-Fish Creek, said Alberta Health must work to make the
provincial system easier to navigate for families who suddenly find themselves
seeking help with a rare condition.

"The whole thing is just convoluted," said Forsyth, who said she was overwhelmed
to hear Aleena will receive treatment. "I think they have to simplify things and
make it easier for the public to understand."

NDP health critic Dave Eggen said Alberta Health also needs to speed up the
process.

"I'm glad something moved," the Edmonton-Calder MLA said. "But in the future I
don't want to see people's health compromised by being run through the wringer
again."

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The Canadian Press; The Alberta government announced Monday that it
will fund Aleena Sadownyk's treatment for Maroteaux-Lamy Syndrome.;

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2013 The Leader-Post, a division of Canwest MediaWorks Publication
                                      Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              165 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          Inside Bay Area (California)

                             June 7, 2007 Thursday

Experts tackle rare diseases

BYLINE: By Suzanne Bohan, STAFF WRITER

SECTION: SAN MATEO

LENGTH: 1238 words


MEDICAL students commonly hear the phrase, "If you hear hoof beats, think
horses, not zebras."

The old adage reflects a core tenet of the art of medical diagnoses: It's more
productive to first assume common diseases are the cause of most patients'
symptoms, rather than exotic disorders.

That medical mind-set was evident when Kaycee Antosiak, a vivacious 12-year-old
Los Altos girl, sought treatment for her crippling pain after a dog bite. While
the bite healed in six weeks, excruciating pain set in, leading the active girl
to collapse after a dance class. She then began using crutches and finally a
wheelchair. During that time, she visited dozens of medical experts, none of
whom could determine the cause of her increasing infirmity.

Three months after the dog attack, she was referred to a Stanford University
physician, Dr. Elliot Krane, who correctly diagnosed her as afflicted with a
rare geneticdisease called complex regional pain syndrome. The condition causes
excruciating chronic pain, long after the generally minor injury that triggered
it healed.

"These patients think their foot is immersed in boiling water all of the time,"
said Krane, a pediatric anesthesiologist at Lucile Packard Children's Hospital,
who last week at Stanford led the first conference worldwide to seek faster
diagnoses and better treatment of the condition.

"It just ruins the lives of these kids. The typical kid is in a wheelchair,"
Krane said. Their limbs, he added, are often blue and cold to the touch from
misfiring nerve cells.

Before Kaycee visited Krane, she said, some doctors had suggested the pain was
in her head.

"I told my parents, 'I don't think I'm crazy. My ankle really hurts,'" Kaycee
recalled. Her mother, Donna Antosiak, speaks with a tone of shock at the memory
of that time.

"She was screaming, 'Mommy, mommy, it hurts, it hurts!'" said Antosiak. "I was
going out of my mind."

With the extraordinary challenge of diagnosing these uncommon conditions, and
medical training that encourages doctors to focus on familiar causes of disease,
most patients with rare disorders run through a gauntlet of doctors before --
for the lucky ones -- they end up referred to the unique physician with the
knowledge to correctly pinpoint their disorder.

"I can't think of a single patient I've seen within a month of their onset of
symptoms," Krane said.

"Sometimes it's a year and they're unable to walk," he added. Krane recognized
within minutes the disease afflicting Kaycee when he first saw her in November
2005 and immediately started her on treatment.

Although one doctor told her she'd never walk again, today the 12-year-old is
back in dance class and plans on attending several camps this summer, including
ones for acting, speech, volleyball and Irish dance. Occasionally, she said, her
ankle still aches and she's aware she's vulnerable for life from the condition,
absent the development of a treatment that permanently ends the pain.

While only a few hundred other Americans suffer from the condition, Kaycee and
others with complex regional pain syndrome are among the ranks of the 30 million
Americans suffering from one of the nearly

7,000 known rare diseases, according to Dr. Steven Groft, director of the Office
of Rare Diseases with the National Institutes of Health. The NIH defines a rare
disease as one affecting 200,000 or fewer Americans.

They carry strange names like Madelung's Disease, which causes abnormal fat
accumulation around the neck and shoulders; Kufs Disease, a neurological
disorder that mimics a mental illness; or the horrific fibrodysplasia ossificans
progressive, which causes muscle tissue and ligaments to turn to bone, encasing
the afflicted in bone.

The prevalence of those living with these unusual conditions numerically rivals
the 40 million Americans with one or more of the three major diseases: heart
disease, cancer or diabetes.

The number of patients identified with a rare disease also is expected to swell
with expanding knowledge of the human genome, said Groft. Rare diseases are
usually attributed to genetics. In fewer cases, they're caused by infectious
agents like viruses or bacteria.

"What we're finding is that as more information becomes available, there are
more and more patients who have the rare disorder," Groft said. "With the
arrival of the Internet, people started putting the pieces together better."

And physicians committed to researching and providing treating for one of these
strange maladies often push into medical frontiers to improve the lives of their
patients.

The Stanford conference on complex regional pain syndrome, held May 30 and 31,
drew dozens of experts from a variety of disciplines. The conference yielded a
consensus paper on better diagnoses and optimal treatment for the condition,
which emphasizes physical therapy with the use of pain medications to ease the
initial agony of exercise, the same therapy Krane used with Kaycee. Krane said
the statement will be published in a leading pediatric medical journal.

These kinds of conferences are vital for improving the medical profession's
track record for diagnosing unique diseases, said Groft. And even though doctors
often have few if any treatments to offer, the diagnosis allows patients and
their families to band with others with the condition to seek the best
treatments and advocate for research.

"Many advocacy groups can help patients live a little better life," said Groft.

Furthermore, the NIH budget for rare disease research is robust, he added. Of
the $29 billion awarded by the NIH last year for medical research grants, $4
billion, or 18 percent, went to studying rare diseases. The grants often fund
clinical trials that give patients with few or no options a chance to try
potential treatments, Groft emphasized.

"That's one of the messages we'd like to get out," he said. "People can get
information on on-going clinical studies, as well as completed ones. So there
can be hope for people with rare diseases."

Krane pointed hopefully to a future in which genetic tests of blood samples will
quickly provide answers to the questions that now vex physicians encountering
patients with mysterious ailments.

"Thirty years from now," he speculated, "all that work is going to be done for
us. Someone is going to plug some blood into a gene array and the answer will
pop out."

Until and if such swift diagnoses of rare diseases come to pass, Groft said
those with disorders that defy treatment can best cope with their frustration
and fear by seeking access to specialists.

"No one can be expected to know that many disorders," he said of the rare
diseases so far identified. "We encourage patients to be referred upward in the
medical system to specialists."

Kaycee and her mother consider themselves extraordinarily fortunate to have
found Krane and to have the funds for the medical costs.

Donna Antosiak calls Krane "my favorite person in the whole wide world," while
Kaycee said she doubts she would be walking today without his treatment.

"I probably would have gone crazy from the pain," she said.

As for those with less access to sophisticated medical care or with fewer
financial resources, Kaycee shuddered to consider their fate: "I wouldn't want
to find out what happens to them," she said.

For information on NIH-approved clinical trials for treatments for rare
diseases, visit http://www.clinicaltrials.gov .

Contact Suzanne Bohan at sbohan@angnewspapers.com or (650) 348-4324.

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: KAYCEE ANTOSIAK, who in 2005 learned she has a rare disease that causes
excruciating pain even in the absence of an injury, sits in a tree in her Los
Altos backyard last week. A Stanford University doctor who specializes in
treating the disorder, called complex regional pain syndrome, helped Antosiak
recover from the debilitating condition.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2007 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                              166 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               New Indian Express

                            March 2, 2016 Wednesday

Rare Diseases, High Medical Expenses Cause Families Distress

LENGTH: 562 words

DATELINE: BENGALURU


BENGALURU, March 2 -- Patients with rare health disorders and their families are
seeking the government's help to meet their high medical expenses.

The disorders include haemophilia, thalassemia, sickle cell disease, Duchenne
muscular dystrophy (DMD), pompe, Asperger syndrome and primary immunodeficiency
disease (PID).

Shanthi Ganesh has a 24-year-old son, Neelesh Ganesh, with Asperger's syndrome.
This is a pervasive developmental disorder (PDD), which causes delays in the
development of many basic skills, most notably the ability to socialise,
communicate, and use the imagination.

"Even an upper middle class family cannot afford the treatment expenses," she
said, urging the government to step in and help. Talented in painting, Neelesh
has studied up to the 12th standard.

Dr Namitha Kumar, Research Director, Centre for Health Ecologies and Technology,
says the exact cause of Asperger's syndrome is not known. It may be inherited,
and if diagnosed, can be managed well, she told City Express.

Similarly, haemophilia patients face difficult odds. It is a blood disorder that
results in constant pain in the body and joints.

Premroop Alva, secretary of the Haemophilia Society, said, "It is treated with
clotting factors, which are costly. If the government comes up with a care
centre, poor patients will not be so badly burdened."

Patients with such a disorder are vulnerable to internal injury, which calls for
quick medication to save them from becoming disabled, he said. A patient spends
Rs 2.5 to 3 lakh a year to treat the condition.

The human body has 13 clotting factors, and the absence of Factor 8 and 9
results in haemophilia. If a patient suffers a cut or internal injury, he bleeds
without control. The condition is treated by infusing a clotting factor (drug),
which remains active for a short time.

Doctors say it has no cure but can be controlled. About 70 per cent cases of
haemophilia are genetic and 30 are caused by mutation. And one in every 5,000
men is detected with this condition.

Social Stigma

Gagandeep, a patient with thalassemia, has faced rejection from many employers.
"Due to low awareness, people with the condition don't also get brides and
grooms," he said.

Ayesha (24), who also suffers from thalassemia, needs about '8,000 for medicines
every month. "When she was six months old, we noticed patches on her body. She
was later diagnosed as a thalassemia patient," Mohammed Aslam, her father, said.

In India about 30 million are affected by thalassemia, according to a 2010
report. This is the largest rare disease population to be recorded.

Doctors say patients who require blood transfusion regularly are also at risk of
contracting hepatitis and AIDS.

Art and Film Festival

Globally, 7,000 rare diseases are listed, and nearly 70 million people in India
suffer from such diseases. That comes to one in every 20 people. In Karnataka,
the estimate as of February 2014 was 3.7 million. The Centre for Health
Ecologies and Technology at the International Institute of Art, Culture and
Democracy, Bengaluru, had recently organised the Blue Ribbon Art Exhibition and
Film Festival under its Autism and Rare Diseases Awareness outreach programme.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from New Indian Express. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2016 Expressbuzz.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              167 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               New Indian Express

                            March 2, 2016 Wednesday

Rare Diseases Cause Families Distress

LENGTH: 562 words

DATELINE: BENGALURU


BENGALURU, March 2 -- Patients with rare health disorders and their families are
seeking the government's help to meet their high medical expenses.

The disorders include haemophilia, thalassemia, sickle cell disease, Duchenne
muscular dystrophy (DMD), pompe, Asperger syndrome and primary immunodeficiency
disease (PID).

Shanthi Ganesh has a 24-year-old son, Neelesh Ganesh, with Asperger's syndrome.
This is a pervasive developmental disorder (PDD), which causes delays in the
development of many basic skills, most notably the ability to socialise,
communicate, and use the imagination.

"Even an upper middle class family cannot afford the treatment expenses," she
said, urging the government to step in and help. Talented in painting, Neelesh
has studied up to the 12th standard.

Dr Namitha Kumar, Research Director, Centre for Health Ecologies and Technology,
says the exact cause of Asperger's syndrome is not known. It may be inherited,
and if diagnosed, can be managed well, she told City Express.

Similarly, haemophilia patients face difficult odds. It is a blood disorder that
results in constant pain in the body and joints.

Premroop Alva, secretary of the Haemophilia Society, said, "It is treated with
clotting factors, which are costly. If the government comes up with a care
centre, poor patients will not be so badly burdened."

Patients with such a disorder are vulnerable to internal injury, which calls for
quick medication to save them from becoming disabled, he said. A patient spends
Rs 2.5 to 3 lakh a year to treat the condition.

The human body has 13 clotting factors, and the absence of Factor 8 and 9
results in haemophilia. If a patient suffers a cut or internal injury, he bleeds
without control. The condition is treated by infusing a clotting factor (drug),
which remains active for a short time.

Doctors say it has no cure but can be controlled. About 70 per cent cases of
haemophilia are genetic and 30 are caused by mutation. And one in every 5,000
men is detected with this condition.

Social Stigma

Gagandeep, a patient with thalassemia, has faced rejection from many employers.
"Due to low awareness, people with the condition don't also get brides and
grooms," he said.

Ayesha (24), who also suffers from thalassemia, needs about '8,000 for medicines
every month. "When she was six months old, we noticed patches on her body. She
was later diagnosed as a thalassemia patient," Mohammed Aslam, her father, said.

In India about 30 million are affected by thalassemia, according to a 2010
report. This is the largest rare disease population to be recorded.

Doctors say patients who require blood transfusion regularly are also at risk of
contracting hepatitis and AIDS.

Art and Film Festival

Globally, 7,000 rare diseases are listed, and nearly 70 million people in India
suffer from such diseases. That comes to one in every 20 people. In Karnataka,
the estimate as of February 2014 was 3.7 million. The Centre for Health
Ecologies and Technology at the International Institute of Art, Culture and
Democracy, Bengaluru, had recently organised the Blue Ribbon Art Exhibition and
Film Festival under its Autism and Rare Diseases Awareness outreach programme.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from New Indian Express. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2016 Expressbuzz.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              168 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                        April 4, 2016 Monday 6:30 AM EST

Strongbridge Biopharma Announces Presentation of COR-003 Data at Endocrine
Society's 2016 Annual Conference

LENGTH: 224  words


April 4 -- Strongbridge Biopharma plc (Nasdaq:SBBP), a global rare disease
biopharmaceutical company focused on the development and commercialization of
novel therapeutic options, today announced that pharmacology data for COR-003
(levoketoconazole) from preclinical experiments and a clinical study evaluating
COR-003 in healthy subjects were presented at the Endocrine Society's 2016
Annual Meeting and Expo being held in Boston, MA from April 1-4, 2016.

COR-003, Strongbridge's lead product candidate, is a cortisol inhibitor
currently being studied in the global Phase 3 SONICS trial for the treatment of
endogenous Cushing's syndrome.

"Strongbridge is proud to be a part of the rare disease community and scientific
exchange taking place at the Endocrine Society's 2016 Annual Meeting," said Ruth
Thieroff-Ekerdt, M.D., chief medical officer of Strongbridge Biopharma. "The
pharmacology data presented at this meeting add to the growing body of evidence
supporting the potential utility of COR-003 in Cushing's syndrome, where there
is significant unmet need in terms of diagnosis and treatment of patients with
this rare endocrine disorder."

The poster, entitled Pharmacology of COR-003 (levoketoconazole), an
investigational treatment for endogenous Cushing's syndrome, was presented on
Saturday, April 2, 2016.

Source: Strongbridge Biopharma

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2016 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              169 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                      March 1, 2017 Wednesday 6:30 AM EST

Audentes Therapeutics Announces Commencement of LUSTRO, Clinical Assessment,
Phase 1/2 Run-in Study of Patients with Crigler-Najjar Syndrome

LENGTH: 361  words


March 1 -- Audentes Therapeutics, Inc. (Nasdaq: BOLD), a biotechnology company
focused on developing and commercializing gene therapy products for patients
living with serious, life-threatening rare diseases, today announced the
commencement of LUSTRO, a prospective study designed to characterize the disease
course in patients living with Crigler-Najjar Syndrome.  LUSTRO will evaluate
subjects prior to potential enrollment in VALENS, the planned Phase 1/2 clinical
study to evaluate the safety and preliminary efficacy of AT342, the Audentes
product candidate being developed to treat Crigler-Najjar Syndrome.

"We are pleased to announce the commencement of LUSTRO," stated Dr. Suyash
Prasad, Senior Vice President and Chief Medical Officer of Audentes
Therapeutics. "LUSTRO is designed to further our understanding of the baseline
characteristics of patients living with Crigler-Najjar Syndrome, and the burden
of disease as experienced by patients, families and caregivers.  We greatly
appreciate the opportunity to work with the Crigler-Najjar community and view
the initiation of LUSTRO as an important milestone as we seek to develop an
innovative gene therapy for this devastating rare disease."

LUSTRO is an international study of approximately 16 to 18 Crigler-Najjar
patients one year of age or older.  The primary objectives of LUSTRO are to
characterize the disease course, natural history, serum bilirubin variability
and phototherapy usage of Crigler-Najjar patients.  LUSTRO will also assess the
burden of disease on Crigler-Najjar patients and caregivers.  In addition,
LUSTRO has been designed as a run-in study to identify patients for potential
enrollment in VALENS, the planned Phase 1/2 study of AT342, and is intended to
serve as a longitudinal baseline and within-patient control for subjects who
enroll in VALENS.  As LUSTRO will be conducted at the same sites and using the
same assessment tools, LUSTRO will also facilitate certain operational aspects
of VALENS.

The Investigational New Drug application (IND) for AT342 is active.  Audentes
plans to report preliminary data from VALENS in the fourth quarter of 2017.

Source: Audentes Therapeutics

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2017 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              170 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                      March 1, 2017 Wednesday 6:30 AM EST

Audentes Therapeutics Announces Commencement of LUSTRO, a Clinical Assessment
and Phase 1 / 2 Run-in Study of Patients with Crigler-Najjar Syndrome

LENGTH: 360  words


March 1 -- Audentes Therapeutics, Inc. (Nasdaq: BOLD), a biotechnology company
focused on developing and commercializing gene therapy products for patients
living with serious, life-threatening rare diseases, today announced the
commencement of LUSTRO, a prospective study designed to characterize the disease
course in patients living with Crigler-Najjar Syndrome.  LUSTRO will evaluate
subjects prior to potential enrollment in VALENS, the planned Phase 1 / 2
clinical study to evaluate the safety and preliminary efficacy of AT342, the
Audentes product candidate being developed to treat Crigler-Najjar Syndrome.

"We are pleased to announce the commencement of LUSTRO," stated Dr. Suyash
Prasad, Senior Vice President and Chief Medical Officer of Audentes
Therapeutics. "LUSTRO is designed to further our understanding of the baseline
characteristics of patients living with Crigler-Najjar Syndrome, and the burden
of disease as experienced by patients, families and caregivers.  We greatly
appreciate the opportunity to work with the Crigler-Najjar community and view
the initiation of LUSTRO as an important milestone as we seek to develop an
innovative gene therapy for this devastating rare disease."

LUSTRO is an international study of approximately 16 to 18 Crigler-Najjar
patients one year of age or older.  The primary objectives of LUSTRO are to
characterize the disease course, natural history, serum bilirubin variability
and phototherapy usage of Crigler-Najjar patients.  LUSTRO will also assess the
burden of disease on Crigler-Najjar patients and caregivers.  In addition,
LUSTRO has been designed as a run-in study to identify patients for potential
enrollment in VALENS, the planned Phase 1 / 2 study of AT342, and is intended to
serve as a longitudinal baseline and within-patient control for subjects who
enroll in VALENS.  As LUSTRO will be conducted at the same sites and using the
same assessment tools, LUSTRO will also facilitate certain operational aspects
of VALENS.

The Investigational New Drug application (IND) for AT342 is active.  Audentes
plans to report preliminary data from VALENS in the fourth quarter of 2017.

Source: Audentestx

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2017 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              171 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                     January 14, 2015 Wednesday 6:30 AM EST

Auspex Pharmaceuticals Receives FDA Orphan Drug Designation of SD-809 for
Treatment of Tourette Syndrome in Pediatric Population

LENGTH: 333  words


Jan. 14 -- US-based Auspex Pharmaceuticals, Inc. issued the following news
release:

Auspex Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Nasdaq:ASPX), a biopharmaceutical company
dedicated to developing innovative medicines for people with movement disorders
and other rare diseases, today announced that the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration (FDA) has granted orphan drug designation to Auspex's
investigational compound SD-809 for the treatment of Tourette syndrome in the
pediatric population (defined as zero through 16 years of age). Auspex is
currently evaluating the preliminary efficacy, pharmacokinetic and safety
profile of SD-809 in a Phase 1b clinical trial for the treatment of tics
associated with Tourette syndrome. Topline data from this trial are expected by
mid-2015. In November 2014, SD-809 was granted orphan drug designation by the
FDA for the treatment of Huntington's disease.

"Receiving orphan drug designation of SD-809 for the treatment of Tourette
syndrome, in addition to Huntington's disease, is an important step forward in
our goal of bringing this novel treatment approach to the patients and families
affected by these serious disorders," said Pratik Shah, president and CEO of
Auspex. "There have been no new drugs developed for Tourette syndrome in over 30
years. The orphan drug designation recognizes the significant need that exists
among children living with this debilitating disease, and we look forward to
assessing the potential role that SD-809 may have in addressing that."

The FDA's Orphan Drug program offers orphan status to drugs and biologics that
are intended for the treatment of rare diseases affecting fewer than 200,000
people in the U.S. The designation provides sponsors with development and
commercial incentives for designated compounds and medicines, including
eligibility for a seven-year period of market exclusivity in the U.S. after
product approval, FDA assistance in clinical trial design and an exemption from
FDA user fees.

Source: Auspex Pharmaceuticals, Inc.

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2015 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              172 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                 Hereford Times

                             April 13, 2014 Sunday

Mother takes giant leap to raise awareness of rare disease

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 303 words


A MOTHER is hoping her fund-raising exploits will raise awareness about a rare
disease that has affected her family.

Cerys Goddard says very little is known about Sturge-Weber Syndrome.

So much so that following her son Freddie's diagnosis last month, many nurses,
doctors and consultants she has since met had never heard of the condition.

Signs of the skin disorder which can lead to the development of epilepsy,
learning disabilities and glaucoma - were apparent from Freddie's birth in the
form of a 'port-wine stain' birthmark on his face.

However, the diagnosis still came as a shock.

Cerys, from Whitecross, Hereford, said: "We always knew from when he was born
that it was possible he would develop the syndrome, but we were told that if he
made it to a year with no seizures he would be okay.

"But at about 20 months old he started having seizures and was diagnosed with
epilepsy and then the syndrome.

"Before his diagnosis I made sure I prepared myself for what could happen. I
kept in touch with a Sturge-Weber page on Facebook where you can talk to other
people who have experience of the condition. We thought the danger had passed."

Despite what the 21 month old has already been through and may still have to
face, Cerys says he is a regular little boy, like his brother Finley and
half-brother Luis.

"He's happy, mischievous and silly," she added.

"Although he's on medication for his epilepsy, which I think has made him a bit
naughty, he's doing great considering what he's been through. Freddie is having
lazer treatment on his birthmark and he has many potential challenges ahead of
him but he's very brave."

Cerys is hoping to raise £750 for Sturge Weber UK by doing a charity skydive on
June 12, while partner Matt will be taking on the Three Peaks Challenge.

To sponsor Cerys visit www.justgiving.com/c-goddard.

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2014 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              173 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                              The Ballarat Courier

                            March 19, 2015 Thursday

PURPLE may not be used in Ballarat Clarendon College's

BYLINE: Nicole Cairns

SECTION: PAGE TWO; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 297 words


PURPLE may not be used in Ballarat Clarendon College's uniform, but students and
teachers donned a splash of the colour to raise money for Sanfilippo Syndrome on
Wednesday.

It is one of many ways the school will raise money for research into the rare
disease, which has attacked teacher Mark Robson's five-year-old daughter Skye.

On Monday there was a bake sale, Tuesday a sausage sizzle, Wednesday a touch of
purple and nail panting, Thursday a staff versus students' soccer match and on
Friday prizes from the raffle will be drawn and funds tallied.

School head of community service Jenny Tischler said the school supported things
close to home and the community, and students had pushed for something to be
done relating to the disease.

Skye's life expectancy is between 12 and 20 years, with the degenerative fatal
disease in its initial stages. Later it will go into a hyperactive phase, before
a breakdown phase. The final funds count will be on Friday, but Ms Tischler
estimated hundreds of dollars had already been raised.

She said the college had chosen a touch of purple as purple was the colour used
for rare diseases.

"Rare Disease Day was celebrated on February 28, which was a Saturday which
didn't suit us at school, so we decided to do something now," she said.

Ms Tischler said the main aim of the week was to raise awareness for Sanfilippo
syndrome and hoped the whole school would know and understand something about it
by the end of the week. The Robson family has set up a fundraising campaign,
Hope for Skye, to help fund gene therapy that could potentially extend Skye's
life.

Mr Robson said they were blown away from the level of support all week.

"Hopefully, this will help find a cure for Skye and help others with the rare
disease."

nicole.cairns@fairfaxmedia.com.au

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2015 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              174 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                        Manawatu Standard (New Zealand)

                           February 27, 2014 Thursday

Rare opportunity Groups' chance to raise awareness

BYLINE: Kelsey Fletcher

SECTION: NEWS; NATIONAL; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 524 words


It took more than six years for Palmerston North boy Oscar van Dyk to be
diagnosed with a rare genetic disorder.

The 11-year-old is now living with Coffin Lowry Syndrome, which affects him
intellectually and physically.

"Up until Christmas he was the only one diagnosed in New Zealand that we knew
of," said his mother, Kelli van Dyk.

"Since then there has been a little girl in Auckland too," she said. "With Oscar
it's a one-off. It can be a hereditary gene but with him it just happened at
conception."

Symptoms of the condition include a short stature, skeletal abnormalities,
distinct facial features, and delayed language and motor skills.

Children with the syndrome can also be diagnosed with autism, epilepsy,
scoliosis, heart conditions and dental abnormalities.

The condition affects boys more severely than girls.

Mrs van Dyk spoke to the Manawatu Standard about her son's complex condition
ahead of Rare Disease Day tomorrow.

"When he was born he appeared normal, apart from being slightly small," she
said. "But he was one unhappy, miserable baby who didn't feed or sleep."

Mrs van Dyk said Oscar was referred to genetics specialists at about 12 months
when it became apparent he wasn't developing and hitting his milestones.

"He didn't walk until he was 2 1/2 and he wasn't diagnosed until he was 6 1/2,"
she said. "It wasn't until we saw a geneticist who had seen a case before and
thought he recognised it, that was when they decided to test for it.

"It's getting diagnosed earlier now, around the world, because it's getting more
well-known, but because he was the first case we know of, they just didn't know
what they were looking for."

Mrs van Dyk said the diagnosis was a shock for the family who had been holding
on to a "false hope" that he might miraculously improve.

"When we got the diagnosis it was tough and it was a grieving process we had to
go through to accept and realise he was never going to be a normal person," she
said. "But now he's happy, he loves school and routine and will talk to
anybody."

Mrs van Dyk said it was tough learning to bring up a child with a rare syndrome
and very little support. "We belong to the worldwide Facebook group for the
condition," she said. "For us Facebook is amazing, it gives us an opportunity to
share stories, vent and moan, and everyone understands."

New Zealand Organisation for Rare Disorders (NZORD) executive director John
Forman said Rare Disease Day was a chance for individuals and small groups to
raise awareness and raise funds for their chosen condition.

"The key reason for community awareness is the relative neglect of rare
diseases. For all of the pressures and demands on the health systems, it is
good, but some things are dealt with better than others."

Mr Forman said Rare Disease Day is held internationally, with more than 60
countries and hundreds of patient groups participating. "The international theme
for this year is 'Let's join together for better care', emphasising the need for
collaboration to get the best outcomes."

--------------------

CAPTION:

Sibling support: Lola, 8, and Oscar van Dyk, 11, play at home in Palmerston
North.

Picture: DAVID UNWIN/FAIRFAX NZ

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2014 Fairfax New Zealand
                              All Rights Reserved


                              175 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                             May 8, 2013 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

We hope Liam lives long enough to see centre he inspired open its doors;
DAD'S AIM FOR SICK KID'S FACILITY

BYLINE: AOIFE BANNON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 462 words


A DOTING dad has told how he hopes his terminally ill son will live to see the
opening of Ireland's first National Respite Centre for kids.

Little Liam Heffernan, four, suffers from rare Batten's Disease, a genetic
disorder which took the life of his older sister, Saoirse, at the age of five in
January 2011.

But now his determined parents Tony and Mary are hoping to see their children's
legacy live on through the establishment of a care centre for children affected
by rare disease and genetic conditions. The foundation - which the family hope
should be open by 2015 - will be called Liam's Lodge, with RTE star Miriam
O'Callaghan acting as its patron. And Tony, from Co Kerry, told how he hopes
brave Liam will live to see the centre he inspired open its doors. He said: "The
man of the moment will hopefully be with us to see this project come to fruition
and open in two years time.

"We do know he is against the odds to survive more than 12 to 18 months and
that's very hard for us to picture.

"But we will look after him and hopefully get as much care for him as we can so
hopefully he will see this lovely project come together."

The Heffernans hope to welcome the first families in 2015 and need to raise
'4.5million to complete the project.

The centre will be built immediately outside Tralee town and close to Kerry
General Hospital.

They are appealing to people across Ireland to help build and support Liam's
Lodge - either through donations, corporate sponsorship or by donating their
time and expertise, particularly from those in the construction industries.

The much-needed facility aims to provide full respite care services in
custom-built family units.

These will be used to care for children with rare diseases while giving parents
and siblings the chance to get some rest.

The centre could provide for 520 families each year in phase one, with plans to
extend the service to 1,600 families in the near future.

Conditions Children who suffer from Cystic Fibrosis, Duchenne, Marfan Syndrome,
Angelman's Syndrome and many other lesser known conditions would be able to
avail of much-needed help from Liam's Lodge.

Tony said: "With little Government supports, we are appealing to people across
Ireland to help give a muchneeded break to the families of children with rare
diseases.

"We know from experience the benefits of a week's respite are immense for the
whole family. Please help us build Liam's Lodge."

Rare diseases affect more than eight per cent of Ireland's population.

Over 70 per cent are children and 30 per cent will die before reaching their
fifth birthday. More than 50 per cent of kids with rare disease are highly
dependent and many rely on roundthe-clock care.

Q TO find out how you can get involved log onto liamslodge.com.

aoife.bannon@the-sun.ie

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SUPPORT ... Liam, far right, with parents, sis Saoirse and Kerry star
Darragh O Se. Left, Liam in hospital
PATIENT AND PATRON ... Liam and Miriam

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2013 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved


                              176 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                       Sydney Morning Herald (Australia)

                           February 28, 2009 Saturday
                                 First Edition

Common front to fight rare ailments

BYLINE: Julie Robotham Medical Editor

SECTION: NEWS AND FEATURES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 517 words


WHEN her daughter Zoe was just five months old, Nellie Evans was gripped by a
powerful feeling. "Something was amiss," she says now. "It was that innate sense
that mothers have."

It would take another two years and a heartbreaking regression in Zoe's limited
skills before the family would first hear the words Rett syndrome. Those words
have become central to their lives as Zoe, now four - a happy child who adores
music, Peppa Pig books and her seven-year-old sister Ella - shuttles between
appointments with specialists, speech and occupational therapists and
physiotherapists.

Intensive therapy gives Zoe the best life possible under the shadow of the
progressive genetic disorder affecting only girls, which devastates their
physical and mental development and may cause sudden death any time between
childhood and middle age.

The Evans' experience is common, said Elizabeth Elliott, the director of the
Australian Pediatric Surveillance Unit.

The non-specific symptoms of rare conditions unfamiliar to most doctors led to
long delays in diagnosis, said Professor Elliott, whose establishment of the
unit 15 years ago determined the prevalence in Australia of some rare diseases -
most of which are genetic and first manifest in childhood.

Rare diseases, she said, "have been systematically neglected". Individually,
they are defined as affecting fewer than one in 10,000 people; but collectively,
up to 10 per cent of the population suffers from one.

Specialists from around Australia now plan to campaign to "get rare diseases on
the map, to make sure there is equitable access to services", for those whose
disorder does not trigger a well-established package of care.

National referral clinics for doctors baffled by a patient's unusual symptoms
could shorten diagnosis time, Professor Elliott said, and a network of such
clinics could facilitate contact and mutual support between families grappling
with the realities frightening and unfamiliar diseases.

Zoe's diagnosis, traumatic as it was, came as a relief to Mrs Evans. "Even if
the future was quite grim, at least I knew what it was and we could start to
make the best of it," she said.

It allowed her and her husband, Huw, to decide new priorities and develop a
program of stimulating activities for their daughter. Just as importantly, it
eased Mrs Evans's feelings of guilt; previously she had agonised that something
she had done during pregnancy might have caused Zoe's problems.

Now she knew they had simply "hit this horrible genetic jackpot".

And it also shifted the family's priorities. "Zoe doesn't carry the weight of
expectations the way a lot of people do," Mrs Evans said. "Her quality of life
is incredibly high."

OTHER DISORDERS

Behcet's disease 1 in 13,000. Inflammatory disease with painful mouth and
genital ulcers.

Williams syndrome 1 in 20,000. Heart malformations accompany developmental
delays and sensitivity to noise.

Friedreich's ataxia 1 in 50,000. Poor co-ordination and heart failure.

Prader-Willi syndrome 1 in 25,000. Loss of muscle tone.

Cri du Chat syndrome 1 in 15,000. High-pitched cry, small head and developmental
delay.

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Different priorities . . . Zoe Evans, aged 4, who has a rare
disorder called Rett syndrome, plays with her sister Ella, 7. Photo: Brendan
Esposito

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2009 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              177 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                           Bangor Daily News (Maine)

                           January 15, 2009 Thursday
                                  All Editions

MAINE'S RARE DISEASES

SECTION: Pg. A6

LENGTH: 395 words


People on Deer Isle have a special interest in a rare disease called SPG4.
Dozens of them carry the mutant gene that make them susceptible, although
worldwide it strikes only two to four in 100,000.

And researchers keep looking for cases of another rare disease, Alstrom syndrome
, with a cluster of victims in the nearby Canadian Maritime Provinces.

SPG4, which stands for spastic paraplegia gait, affects walking or "gait." It
came to Deer Isle with an early settler from France. It is understood to affect
only members and descendants of the Hardy or Haskell families. Children of
carriers have a 50 percent chance of inheriting the mutation. It doesn't shorten
life, but it can weaken leg muscles and cause loss of balance.

Dr. Robert Beekman of Ellsworth, a specialist in the disease, relates its
concentration on Deer Isle to the long isolation of the community there. He
consults with Deer Isles residents who have the disease or fear they may get it.

Alstrom syndrome is far more serious. It can strike in infancy and often leads
to obesity, progressive loss of sight and hearing, heart problems and often
early death. Jan D. Marshall, a genetics researcher at Jackson Laboratory, a
specialist in the disease, knows of three cases in New Brunswick and five or six
in Nova Scotia. A suspected case in Maine turned out to be something else, but
the Acadian population in Maine and the Maritime Provinces is considered
vulnerable. She says 657 cases in 48 countries have been reported.

Both are under close study by specialists, but no preventive or cure is yet in
sight for either one. Both are so rare that the big genetic companies see no
profitability in starting expensive research into their causes and possible
cures.

Both Dr. Beekman and Ms. Marshall foresee a possibility of progress in the
perhaps distant future. In the meantime, they direct interested people to Web
sites and organizations that bring together patients and researchers. And a
Jackson Lab colleague of Ms. Marshall has bred two Alstrom mouse models that
they hope can lead to an understanding of the functioning of the Alstrom gene
mutation as a first step toward dealing with the disease in humans.

In the meantime, specialists in such rare diseases hope that Gov. John Baldacci
will join other states in designating Feb. 28 as Rare Disease Day to spread
awareness and provide information and hope.

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2009 Bangor Daily News


                              178 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                 irishmirror.ie

                     August 19, 2015 Wednesday 10:35 AM GMT

Watch five-year-old Hailey throw the first pitch at a baseball game with her
3D-printed hand;
The custom-made 3D-printed prosthetic helps Hailey live with a rare disease
called Poland Syndrome

BYLINE: By Jeff Parsons

SECTION: NEWS,TECHNOLOGY & SCIENCE,TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 212 words


The ceremonial first pitch at a baseball game has been thrown by celebrities,
politicians and athletes - but this particular pitch will melt your heart.

Five-year-old Hailey Dawson suffers from a rare disease called Poland Syndrome -
but thanks to some state-of-the-art engineering was able to step up to the mound
and throw the pitch.

Poland Syndrome can cause children to be born with either missing or deformed
hands - making it impossible for them to manage basic tasks.

Thankfully, technology is becoming available to help them deal with the illness
- although it remains extremely expensive.

Haileys hand

In Hailey's case, she was helped by the University of Nevada's engineering
department.

The university modelled her hand on a freely-available 3D-printed hand called
the Flexy-Hand project. This is actually Hailey's third hand - as she grew out
of the first and the second broke as her mother was replacing a part of it.

Adorable Hailey has even started an Instagram page to document her progress with
the technological appendage.

As 3D printing becomes more reliable and affordable, it is being used to help
both people and animals overcome crippling medical conditions.

Have your say in our new comments section below

Should 3D-printed prosthetics be available on the NHS?

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBMGNIRIS


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              179 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                      December 16, 2016 Friday 6:30 AM EST

Novartis Receives Positive CHMP Recommendation for Ilaris to Treat Rare Diseases
in Adults, Children Called Periodic Fever Syndromes

LENGTH: 778  words


Dec. 16 -- Novartis announced today that the Committee for Medicinal Products
for Human Use (CHMP) has recommended approval of Ilaris (canakinumab) in Europe
to treat three rare and distinct Periodic Fever Syndromes.

If approved, Ilaris will be the first and only approved biologic treatment in
Europe for Tumor Necrosis Factor-Receptor Associated Periodic Syndrome (TRAPS),
Hyperimmunoglobulin D Syndrome (HIDS)/Mevalonate Kinase Deficiency (MKD) and
Familial Mediterranean Fever (FMF).

"Few treatments exist for people with these potentially life-threatening
conditions. Today's positive recommendation is a great stride forward for
patients who urgently need new treatment options," said Paul Hudson, CEO,
Novartis Pharmaceuticals. "Novartis is committed to paving the way forward for
rare diseases especially through treatments like Ilaris which has the potential
to raise the standard of care."

The CHMP positive opinion, which also recommends the use of a new formulation
which is a 150 mg/ml solution for injection, is based on results from the
pivotal Phase III CLUSTER study. Results showed rapid (at Day 15) and sustained
disease control with Ilaris compared to placebo through 16 weeks, in patients
with either TRAPS, HIDS/MKD or FMF[3]. Data show Ilaris to be a well-tolerated
and effective treatment for these three rare conditions.

All three conditions are part of a group of rare autoinflammatory diseases
called Periodic Fever Syndromes, which are also referred to as Hereditary
Periodic Fevers (HPF). These can cause disabling and persistent fevers which may
be accompanied by joint pain, swelling, muscle pain and skin rashes with
complications that can be life-threatening[2]. The most common syndrome is FMF,
which mainly affects people of Eastern Mediterranean ancestry. It affects 1 in
250 to 1 in 1,000 individuals in these populations, many of whom are
children[1].

In August 2016, the European Commission approved Ilaris for a license extension
to treat patients with Adult-Onset Still's Disease (AOSD), a rare type of
inflammatory arthritis. The US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) previously
granted three simultaneous approvals of Ilaris for the treatment of TRAPS,
HIDS/MKD and FMF in September 2016.

About Periodic Fever Syndromes

Periodic Fever Syndromes are a group of diseases that cause serious recurrent
fever and pathogenic inflammation through non-infectious activation of the
immune system. Most patients present with symptoms in infancy or childhood, but
in some patients the condition only becomes apparent or diagnosed in
adulthood[1].

Previous treatments for these rare conditions consisted of oral
anti-inflammatory drugs, such as corticosteroids, which were used only to help
manage the symptoms. While other medicines, such as non-steroidal
anti-inflammatory drugs, have also been used to help reduce symptoms, they do
not prevent or change the overall course of a flare[2].

About Ilaris

Ilaris is a selective, high-affinity, human monoclonal antibody that inhibits
Interleukin-1 (IL-1) beta, which is an important part of the body's immune
system defences[4]. Excessive production of IL-1 beta plays a prominent role in
certain inflammatory diseases[5],[6]. Ilaris works by blocking the action of
IL-1 beta for a sustained period of time, therefore inhibiting inflammation that
is caused by its over-production[4]. Novartis has reformulated Ilaris from a
powder that needed to be reconstituted into a solution prior to use to a
solution for injection (ready to use) which will ease administration of the
product.

Ilaris is currently approved and marketed for the treatment of Systemic Juvenile
Idiopathic Arthritis (SJIA) in the US and EU and for the treatment of AOSD and
the symptomatic treatment of refractory acute gouty arthritis in the EU. Ilaris
is also approved in more than 70 countries, including in the EU, Switzerland,
US, Canada, and Japan for the treatment of Cryopyrin-Associated Periodic
Syndromes (CAPS): rare, lifelong, genetic disorders with debilitating symptoms.
In the EU, Ilaris is approved for following subtypes of CAPS: Muckle-Wells
syndrome (MWS), neonatal-onset multisystem inflammatory disease (NOMID)/chronic
infantile neurological, cutaneous, articular syndrome (CINCA), severe forms of
familial cold autoinflammatory syndrome (FCAS)/familial cold urticaria (FCU)
presenting with signs and symptoms beyond cold-induced urticarial skin rash. The
approved indications may vary depending upon the individual country.

This document has footnotes and they may be found at:
(https://www.novartis.com/news/media-releases/novartis-receives-positive-chmp-re
commendation-ilarisr-treat-rare-diseases)

Source: Novartis

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2016 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              180 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                    The Hamilton Spectator (Ontario, Canada)

                           November 26, 2015 Thursday
                                 First Edition

MPP wants more help for those with rare diseases

BYLINE: Allison Jones The Canadian Press

SECTION: CANADA / WORLD; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 595 words


A woman whose immune system is attacking her body's cells - one of only about 30
people in Ontario with the condition. A mother who took her children to the
United States so they could regain some mobility lost due to their rare
connective tissue disorder. A man whose rare condition went undiagnosed for 32
years until he took research into his own hands.

Those three people came to the Ontario legislature Monday as representatives of
the recent wave of rare disease sufferers who had pleaded with the government
for help, and who are now looking for a comprehensive strategy.

Michael Harris, a Progressive Conservative MPP, said a new group of people with
rare diseases could easily show up at the legislature every week, or maybe even
every day.

"(Their concerns) are all different, whether it be out-of-province coverage, a
pharmaceutical, a proper diagnosis," he said.

The government will typically respond to the concerns with measures that could
include a review or funding for a new drug, Harris said. But he's now calling
for an all-party committee to form a comprehensive strategy rather than a
"piecemeal approach."

Jennifer Hamilton is one of about 30 people in Ontario with atypical hemolytic
uremic syndrome, or aHUS, a life-threatening condition in which the immune
system attacks the body's cells, damaging blood vessels.

Ontario recently started providing interim funding for Soliris, a drug estimated
to cost between $500,000 and $700,000 annually per patient, but Hamilton said
she doesn't qualify.

Health Minister Eric Hoskins said of about 23 applications for Soliris funding,
the province has approved 10 and is reviewing another three.

He applauded Harris for his advocacy on behalf of rare disease sufferers, but
wouldn't say yet if the Liberal government will support the motion.

Hoskins noted that Ontario is already co-chairing a national committee looking
at the same subject, which will report to the health ministers' meeting in
January.

It's important for all parties to be involved in a strategy, he said, singling
out Alexion, the maker of Soliris.

The patented medicine prices review board has filed a motion alleging Alexion
charges more in Canada for Soliris than in other jurisdictions, which the
company disputes.

The company challenged the federal board's authority to order a reduction to
prices, saying that it intrudes on provincial jurisdiction and that the price of
Soliris has not increased since being introduced to Canada in 2009, nor
decreased in other countries.

Chantelle Willson, a nurse and mother of four from Brantford, said her husband
and two of her children have been diagnosed with Ehlers-Danlos Syndrome, a
hereditary connective tissue disorder.

"To hear your five-year-old describe it as a burning pain on his hands that feel
like knives are slicing him, slicing him across his forehead, down his tummy and
down his legs - you feel powerless and you don't know how to help," she said.
"It's absolutely heart-wrenching."

Ian Stedman has Muckle-Wells Syndrome, characterized by full-body rashes, fevers
and joint pain, and said he had made 176 visits to the doctor before he was 18.
He didn't get a proper diagnosis until the age of 32, when he noticed his
daughter having similar symptoms and started researching conditions on his own,
he said.

Stedman said he and his three-year-old daughter are some of the lucky rare
disease sufferers because there is treatment available for them, but he hopes
Harris's proposed committee could find a way to help more people get proper
diagnoses.

Harris's motion will be debated on Feb. 25.

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              181 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                 Bath Chronicle

                               February 13, 2014
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Running in memory of best friend

BYLINE: Laura Tremelling

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 282 words


Watching her best friend battle the rare disease Behcet's syndrome, Isabel
Cochrane felt helpless.

After Ruth Page died, Isabel vowed to raise awareness of the disease, and will
be running the Bath Half Marathon next month.

Isabel, 19, from Oldfield Park, met Ruth through a youth group when she was 14,
and they soon became good friends. It was around this time that Ruth started
getting ulcers on her body, and found she was feeling tired all the time. After
visiting a number of doctors she was diagnosed with the syndrome, a rare disease
that causes inflammation of the blood vessels leading to painful ulcers.

Isabel, a student at the University of Bath, said: "It is a really horrible
disease, which can be very painful.

"Ruth had ulcers over her body and in her mouth. She would have good and bad
days. "Despite this she was always so positive, and was always there to help
everyone else with their problems."

Ruth ended up in hospital, where she died in June last year aged 18. Isabel is
in training to run 13.1 miles to raise money and awareness for the Behcet's
Syndrome Society. She said: "When Ruth was alive I felt helpless, I didn't know
what to do to help.

"I have done a bit of running, and thought it would be a good way to raise money
to help others with the disease. "Ruth always used to say how hardly anyone knew
what Behcet's is, and so this is a good opportunity to raise awareness of the
disease."

Isabel was inspired to start running by her dad, and is hoping to complete the
Bath Half in around two hours.

She said: "I have run for years, as my dad used to.

"I am nervous about it, but determined to get through."

To support Isabel, visit www.justgiving.com/bathalf-forbehcets.

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Isabel Cochrane and her friend Ruth, right PICTURE: Lloyd Ellington
BALE20140207B-910_C.JPG

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TBC


                    Copyright 2014 Northcliffe Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              182 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                The Irish Times

                            October 14, 2014 Tuesday

Diagnosis was like a lightbulb going on ;
Many people who havethe rare 22q11.2 deletion syndrome are not diagnosed until
adulthood

BYLINE: James Fogarty

SECTION: HEALTH; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1114 words


Anne Lawlor's daughter, Ãine, was 15 when she received her diagnosis. She has
the rare condition 22q11.2 deletion syndrome, which is caused by the deletion of
a small piece of chromosome 22.

After that things began to make sense.

"As a child Ãine was always sick," says Anne. "She didn't have a congenital
heart defect [which is a common feature of the syndrome] but she was always
sick. During her early years I concentrated on that: but then it dawns on you,
this child is not learning at the same rate as her class."

People with the syndrome often have no known family history of the syndrome even
though an affected parent has a 50 per cent risk of passing the deletion to
their child. In these inherited cases, other family members can also be
affected.

As well as heart defects, the syndrome is associated with kidney, eye and
immune-system problems, as well as educational difficulties and mental health
conditions such as schizophrenia.

All told, there are about 180 symptoms associated with the syndrome. Some of the
more common ones include low calcium levels, and a very distinctive facial
appearance, with symptoms ranging from mild to severe.   Huge boost For Anne,
while the diagnosis provided a huge boost, it was just the beginning.

"What I found was the diagnosis answered a lot of questions but it also gave me
as many questions. I doubt that I could have been given anything more complex."

Despite being the second most common genetic cause of congenital heart disease
after Down syndrome, 22q11.2 deletion syndrome was identified only in the early
1990s and this has led to a lack of awareness among the public and healthcare
professionals, says Kieran Murphy, professor of psychiatry at the Royal College
of Surgeons in Ireland, who is an expert in the syndrome.

"It's known by a number of other names, because previously they weren't
recognised as the same syndrome," he says. "It is very common for people to have
a whole range of different heart problems, and it's increasingly being
identified in very young infants because of the nature of the heart problem,"
says Murphy.

"People also have problems with their palate; either a cleft palate or cleft
lip. Often when infants are born they can have low muscle tone, affecting all of
their muscles, so they can be slow to stand, walk or crawl. They also have
problems with muscles associated with speech.

"They can have a very characteristic way of talking, called hypernasal speech,
because the muscles at the back of the throat are loose, so the speech can have
a characteristic nasal quality."

Complexity of the syndrome It took another seven years and an international
conference, when Ãine was 22, for Anne to be able to accept fully the complexity
of the syndrome.

"I was gobsmacked. I didn't realise what I had been dealing with all along. I
didn't realise there was so much expertise out there."

As a result, and with Murphy's help, Anne and a number of other parents founded
22q11.2 Ireland, a support group for families living with the syndrome.

"There are 120 people signed up with us now," she says. The group has also
helped a number of adults who were undiagnosed.

"We have maybe six parents diagnosed along with their children, who never knew
why they struggled in school or why they have this or that issue. Once the
diagnosis is made, it's like a lightbulb going on."

But she worries that, despite the greater awareness, underdiagnosis is still a
real problem.

"Within the UK and Ireland there are thousands of people undiagnosed; because
the symptoms are so diverse, they really are. Even within families some siblings
will have the syndrome but with different issues and problems."

This concern is shared by medical professionals. Prof Andrew Green is director
of the National Centre for Medical Genetics and a consultant in clinical
genetics at Crumlin and Temple Street children's hospitals. He explains that the
frequency of the condition is estimated to be about one in 4,000, and believes
it is going under the radar.

"Given the varied ways in which the condition can manifest, and the different
ages at which problems can occur, the condition is definitely under-recognised,"
says Green.

"There is certainly a lack of awareness of 22q11.2 deletion among health
professionals, and we need to focus much more on education about the condition."

However, he adds that the paediatric cardiologists and cleft-palate teams, who
see babies with two of the major early manifestations of the syndrome, are very
aware of the condition. They regularly request genetic testing for the condition
on patients.

During his extensive research in the past 20 years, Murphy has also encountered
people who received their diagnosis as adults.

"In some of our earlier studies, we identified a number of children because they
had these heart problems. When the parents of these children were screened, some
were discovered to have the syndrome and to be leading perfectly normal lives."

For children, given the range of difficulties that can accompany the syndrome,
diagnosis is key, he stresses.

"I've spoken to a number of parents whose children were presenting with multiple
problems and they went from one specialist to another. The diagnosis allows
them, and the healthcare professional, to understand the reason the child is
presenting with all these problems. The diagnosis makes sense of things and we
can then screen for the difficulties that people with this syndrome experience.

"For example, people with the syndrome can have very high rates of anxiety
disorders, ADHD and autism, and it's very important these are identified and
appropriate treatment given."

They can also have learning difficulties, with maths in particular being a
challenge, he says. "If we know the child has the syndrome there are ways in
which the child can be taught that maximises their ability to learn."

According to the HSE, Ireland currently does not have a registry of people
diagnosed with 22q11.2 deletion syndrome. However, according to a HSE
spokeswoman, "the condition is recognised as a rare disease and will be included
in the work of the National Clinical Programme for Rare Diseases in the HSE".
She also says the universal newborn hearing screening programme will help
identify children with related hearing loss.

While the recent publication of the National Rare Disease Plan has given Anne
hope, she believes much remains to be done. "Publishing it is one thing but
implementing it is another. It's only empty words unless it's implemented. And I
say that with the greatest respect to all those who have worked so hard to bring
it this far.

"Without their dogged determination, it would not have happened."

See 22q11ireland.org

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2014 The Irish Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              183 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                               Kerryman (Ireland)

                                August 13, 2014
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

Children's respite centre gets (EURO)1,500 library grant

BYLINE: MARISA REIDY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 261 words


A PROPOSED respite centre for children with rare diseases and their families is
to receive its very own library worth (EURO)1,500 as part of the Bord Gáis
Energy 'Donate a Library' initiative.

Liam's Lodge, the brainchild of Tony and Mary Heffernan from Keel, is one of
four community projects to receive a new library through the nationwide scheme,
which aims to help promote books and reading in local communities.

Liam's Lodge aims to cater for the medical, educational and recreational needs
of the families of children with rare diseases - such as Cystic Fibrosis, Marfan
Syndrome, Angelman's Syndrome and many other lesser known conditions. It is also
envisaged that families will be able to receive training in the extra skills
required to care for highly dependent children, while siblings will enjoy
quality time during prearranged family outings and activities. Receiving a brand
new library worth (EURO)1,500 is a massive boost to the project, explained
Liam's Lodge founder, Tony Heffernan, who lost his two children to Batten's
disease.

"We are so thrilled to have been selected to receive our own library through
Bord Gáis Energy's Donate a Library programme. We think it will make such a
difference to the families who make use of the facilities we offer," he said.

Meanwhile, the next round of 'Donate a Library' nominations is currently open
(until Friday, September 5) with another two libraries to be donated in this
nomination period. If you know a local community group who would benefit from
its own library, simply visit www.BGEbookclub.ie to apply.

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: KMN


             Copyright 2014 Independent Newspapers Ireland Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              184 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           January 21, 2015 Wednesday

Oregon: Education aids understanding, reduces stigma of facial paralysis, OSU
study shows

LENGTH: 744  words

DATELINE: Salem


Oregon State University, The State of Oregon has issued the following News
release:

A little bit of sensitivity training can help people form better first
impressions of those with facial paralysis, reducing prejudices against people
with a visible but often unrecognizable disability, new research from Oregon
State University indicates.

There is a natural tendency to base first impressions on a person's face, but
those impressions can be inaccurate and often negative when the person has
facial paralysis, said Kathleen Bogart, an assistant professor of psychology in
the College of Liberal Arts at Oregon State University.

"We wanted to see what we could do to change that, and we found that education
is a powerful tool," said Bogart, who directs the Disability and Social
Interaction Lab at OSU. "It takes away the uncertainty of how to accommodate the
disability."

The research showed that providing education about conditions that cause facial
paralysis helps people correct their misperceptions. Education efforts could be
particularly beneficial to health care workers, educators or other groups that
are more likely to regularly encounter someone with facial paralysis, Bogart
said.

For example, understanding the need to pay attention to other modes of
communication could help a doctor develop a better relationship with a patient
and more accurately detect when the patient is upset or in pain. It also could
help educators avoid the assumption that an unresponsive face means the student
is not attentive, and to understand when a child is actually engaged in a task,
she said.

Bogart is an expert on ableism, or prejudice about disabilities, and her
research focuses on the psychosocial implications of facial movement disorders
such as facial paralysis and Parkinson's disease, which affect more than 200,000
Americans. Her interest stems from personal experience; she has Moebius syndrome
, a rare congenital neurological disorder characterized by facial paralysis and
impaired lateral eye movement.

For the study, she conducted an experiment where some participants received
sensitivity training in the form of educational information about facial
paralysis, including the cause and nature of the disability. The information
stressed the need to focus on body language and voice cues of people with facial
paralysis. Other participants received no information on facial paralysis.

All 110 study participants were then asked to watch a series of video clips
featuring people with facial paralysis, both mild and severe, and were asked to
rate the sociability of the people in the videos. The people who read the
educational information consistently rated people with facial paralysis as more
sociable than those in the group that did not read the information.

"We found that awareness and education efforts are effective in reducing stigma
related to rare disabilities such as facial paralysis," Bogart said. "That could
have a broad impact on the rare disease community, because many rare diseases
are unrecognizable. People who encounter someone with a rare disease may not
understand or know how to adapt to communicate with them."

The findings are being published in the February issue of the journal "Patient
Education and Counseling." Co-author is Linda Tickle-Degnen of Tufts University.
The research was supported by a grant from the National Institutes of Health.

Bogart is now developing educational materials about Moebius Syndrome targeted
to educators and health care providers. She and the students in her lab also are
conducting an awareness campaign in conjunction with Moebius Syndrome Awareness
Day, which is held annually on Jan. 24.

The awareness campaign is a pilot project. Bogart and her students are
encouraging people to take a self-portrait with a sign describing how they
express themselves, then sharing the photos on social media sites using the
hashtag #moebiusawareness. The Moebius Syndrome Foundation and several other
college campuses are also participating in the campaign. For more information on
the effort, visit: http://bit.ly/17BMR8o.

In the future, Bogart hopes to study the effectiveness of such educational
efforts to determine if more information should be included, if other types of
groups might be targeted or if there are other ways to enhance understanding of
rare diseases such as facial paralysis.

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              185 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                     Nanaimo Daily News (British Columbia)

                           December 24, 2015 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Province to cover costly drug to treat N.B. boy with rare disease

SECTION: NATION &; WORLD; Pg. A17

LENGTH: 417 words

DATELINE: FREDERICTON


A 10-year-old New Brunswick boy suffering from a rare and often fatal disease
will receive an expensive treatment for his illness for one year, the province's
health minister said Wednesday, reversing a decision the government made earlier
this year.

Victor Boudreau issued a brief statement saying the province will pay for up to
12 month's worth of Vimizim to assess its effectiveness in treating Morgan
Doucet, who has Morquio syndrome.

The boy's mother, Carolle Mazerolle, was elated with the news.

"It really surprised me," she said in an interview from her home in
Baie-Sainte-Anne, N.B. "I don't know what changed their decision and I don't
care. I'm just glad we got it. .. It's a great Christmas gift."

She said Morgan is in declining health because the disease causes an enzyme
deficiency that leads to many complications.

As a result, the boy always feels sick, has headaches and often vomits. He also
has a

hard time breathing, uses a walker to get around and has had several surgeries.

The drug costs about $200,000 annually.

Last week, Boudreau said he instructed health officials to find an independent
specialist to offer a second opinion about the drug, made by BioMarin
Pharmaceutical (Canada) Inc.

Boudreau could not be reached for comment Wednesday. However, he issued a
statement saying New Brunswick will work with other provinces to devise a
national approach to reviewing expensive drugs for rare diseases. The issue is
expected to be part of high-level discussions next month when provincial health
ministers meet with their new federal counterpart, Jane Philpott.

Durhane Wong-Rieger, CEO of the Canadian Organization for Rare Disorders, said
every province faces the same thorny questions when residents ask for help
paying for pricey medications for rare ailments.

"Most rare-disease drugs don't go on to anybody's formulary," she said,
referring to the list of drugs each province is willing to routinely pay for.
"Quite frankly, they should not go on a formulary because they are highly
specialized drugs. They need a lot of monitoring."

Wong-Rieger says the criteria for that review process was never meant to deal
with rare-disease drugs. "It was never designed to look at the. ..
cost-effectiveness of these highly specialized drugs," she said in an interview.
Last month, the Saskatchewan government said it would pay for one year of
Vimizim treatments for three siblings who have Morquio syndrome. Their family's
funding request was initially turned down at the end of September.

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2015 Nanaimo Daily News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              186 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                       May 12, 2016 Thursday 6:30 AM EST

Akari Therapeutics Announces Receipt of Orphan Drug Designation for Coversin
from US FDA for Treatment of Guillain Barre Syndrome

LENGTH: 360  words


May 12 -- Akari Therapeutics (NASDAQ:AKTX), an emerging growth,
development-stage biopharmaceutical company, announced today that the U.S. Food
and Drug Administration (FDA) has granted to Akari an Orphan Drug Designation
for recombinant protein inhibitor of compliment factor 5 for the treatment of
Guillain Barre Syndrome (GBS). Coversin, Akari's lead clinical product, which
falls within the Orphan Drug Designation, is a second-generation complement
inhibitor that acts on complement component-C5, preventing release of C5a and
formation of C5b-9 (also known as the membrane attack complex or MAC).

Guillain Barre syndrome is an acute immune-mediated post infectious
polyneuropathy where the immune system is triggered into attacking peripheral
nerves, leading to progressive, fairly symmetric muscle weakness and paralysis
accompanied by absent or depressed deep tendon reflexes. In animal models of
GBS, Coversin has been shown to provide protection against such effects.

"We are pleased to receive our first Orphan Drug Designation in the United
States," said Dr. Gur Roshwalb, CEO of Akari. "Studies of Guillain Barre
Syndrome show that up to 35% of patients can have long-term neurological
complications despite best care and it is critical to expand the range of
treatment options available to these patients."

The FDA grants Orphan Drug Designation status to products that treat rare
diseases, providing incentives to sponsors developing drugs or biologics. The
FDA defines rare diseases as those affecting fewer than 200,000 people in the
United States at the time of designation. Orphan Drug Designation provides the
sponsor certain benefits and incentives, including a period of marketing
exclusivity if regulatory approval of the drug is ultimately received for the
designated indication, potential tax credits for certain activities, eligibility
for orphan drug grants, and the waiver of certain administrative fees. The
receipt of Orphan Drug Designation status does not change the regulatory
requirements or process for obtaining marketing approval and designation does
not mean that marketing approval will be received.

Source: Akari Therapeutics

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2016 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              187 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                  thespec.com

                          November 25, 2015 Wednesday

MPP proposes Ontario all-party committee on rare disease treatment

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 599 words


TORONTO - A woman whose immune system is attacking her body's cells - one of
only about 30 people in Ontario with the condition. A mother who took her
children to the United States so they could regain some mobility lost due to
their rare connective tissue disorder. A man whose rare condition went
undiagnosed for 32 years until he took research into his own hands.

Those three people came to the Ontario legislature Monday as representatives of
the recent wave of rare disease sufferers who had pleaded with the government
for help, and who are now looking for a comprehensive strategy.

Michael Harris, a Progressive Conservative MPP, said a new group of people with
rare diseases could easily show up at the legislature every week, or maybe even
every day.

"(Their concerns) are all different, whether it be out-of-province coverage, a
pharmaceutical, a proper diagnosis," he said.

The government will typically respond to the concerns with measures that could
include a review or funding for a new drug, Harris said. But he's now calling
for an all-party committee to form a comprehensive strategy rather than a
"piecemeal approach."

Jennifer Hamilton is one of about 30 people in Ontario with atypical hemolytic
uremic syndrome, or aHUS, a life-threatening condition in which the immune
system attacks the body's cells, damaging blood vessels.

Ontario recently started providing interim funding for Soliris, a drug estimated
to cost between $500,000 and $700,000 annually per patient, but Hamilton said
she doesn't qualify.

Health Minister Eric Hoskins said of about 23 applications for Soliris funding,
the province has approved 10 and is reviewing another three.

He applauded Harris for his advocacy on behalf of rare disease sufferers, but
wouldn't say yet if the Liberal government will support the motion. Hoskins
noted that Ontario is already co-chairing a national committee looking at the
same subject, which will report to the health ministers' meeting in January.

It's important for all parties to be involved in a strategy, he said, singling
out Alexion, the maker of Soliris.

The patented medicine prices review board has filed a motion alleging Alexion
charges more in Canada for Soliris than in other jurisdictions, which the
company disputes.

The company challenged the federal board's authority to order a reduction to
prices, saying that it intrudes upon provincial jurisdiction and that the price
of Soliris has not increased since being introduced to Canada in 2009, nor
decreased in other countries.

Chantelle Willson, a nurse and mother of four from Brantford, Ont., said her
husband and two of her children have been diagnosed with Ehlers-Danlos Syndrome,
a hereditary connective tissue disorder.

"To hear your five-year-old describe it as a burning pain on his hands that feel
like knives are slicing him, slicing him across his forehead, down his tummy and
down his legs - you feel powerless and you don't know how to help," she said.
"It's absolutely heart-wrenching."

Ian Stedman has Muckle-Wells Syndrome, characterized by full-body rashes, fevers
and joint pain, and said he had made 176 visits to the doctor before he was 18.
He didn't get a proper diagnosis until the age of 32, when he noticed his
daughter experiencing similar symptoms and started researching conditions on his
own, he said.

Stedman said he and his three-year-old daughter are some of the lucky rare
disease sufferers because there is treatment available for them, but he hopes
Harris's proposed committee could find a way to help more people get proper
diagnoses.

Harris' motion will be debated on Feb. 25.

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              188 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                             Torquay Herald Express

                              May 8, 2014 Thursday

Fun day to help raise awareness of rare disease

SECTION: NEWS:CHARITY; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 180  words


A PAIGNTON mum is planning a fundraiser to help raise awareness of her son's
rare illness.

Teresa Newell will be hosting a charity coffee morning at Preston Baptist Church
on Saturday to help raise funds and awareness of MPS.

Teresa's son, Corey, five, who attends Preston Primary School, suffers from a
disorder called MPS1 or Hurler syndrome.

She said: "If these rare diseases could be diagnosed earlier in childhood, then
treatments are often more effective because less damage has occurred.  This is
why awareness is so crucial."

MPS stands for  mucopolysaccharidosis, a rare genetic disorder which is marked
by progressive deterioration of the organs.

Hurler syndrome, The strain that Corey suffers from,  has an overall frequency
of one per 100,000 people and is currently incurable.

Teresa added: "Corey has had the only treatment available which slows down the
progression of the disease, but there is no cure."

The event, which suggests dressing in blue, will include pace painting, a fire
engine and a prize raffle draw. The family fun day will run from 10am to
midday.

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2014 Localworld
                              All Rights Reserved


                              189 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                             Paisley Daily Express

                           February 28, 2017 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Lucas is unique in so many ways, says mum;
Rare Disease Day ; Paisley teen is only one in the world to be hit by disease
double

BYLINE: David Campbell

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 6,7

LENGTH: 766 words


Paisley teenager Lucas Webster may be the only person in the world to be
diagnosed with a combination of two rare diseases, but his mum says that is not
the only reason he is unique.

The 16-year-old was born with an abnormal chromosome and an extremely rare
condition called Townes-Brocks syndrome.

His mum Sandra, 50, says doctors have told her that there are no other reported
cases where a patient has both of these genetic conditions.

Having a son who requires 24-hour care has made life difficult, she admits, but
ultimately incredibly rewarding as her son continues to surpass doctors
expectations.

As the world marks Rare Disease Day today, she explained the impact Lucas's
health problems have had on her and the rest of her family.

He was born with a genetic disorder, which Sandra explains created extra
material on chromosome one, and Townes-Brocks Syndrome, which affects just one
in 250,000 people - but she only had that confirmed after taking to the internet
for answers.

Lucas was born without an anus and also with serious kidney problems.

She said:"I know you are not meant to, but I googled some of the symptoms that
Lucas had. I came across a boy with something called Townes-Brocks Syndrome and
I knew that is what Lucas had.

"At that time, there was a place in Germany testing for it, so we had blood sent
there and the tests confirmed that he suffered from the syndrome.

"He was also born with a microduplication called 1.q21, which is essentially
extra material on chromosome one. We were told by our consultant at the Royal
Hospital for Sick Children in Glasgow that, as far as they know, Lucas is the
only child to have been diagnosed with both this microduplication and
Townes-Brocks .

"It means he has a number of physical problems, he suffered renal failure as a
baby, and he was born without an anus. So, along with his physical difficulties,
he has learning difficulties as well.

Sandra, who lives in Glenburn, also explains that Lucas has autism linked to
1.q21, which presents further challenges "The doctors told us that he wouldn't
really grow, but he has come on really well. He is now 6ft 2ins.

Happy At nine was a smiley "I try and challenge him as much as possible. He goes
to Mary Russell School, but he is not in a full class. He has one-on-one tuition
and is doing fine.

"Lucas loves going to the theatre and enjoys the cinema. We are going to two
plays next month, and he is looking forward to that. He is unique and special to
everyone who loves him."

Last year, the family were featured in the Paisley Daily Express when we
reported how a teenager reunited Sandra with her Christmas savings after she
lost her bankbook, much to Lucas and Callum's delight.

More recently, Lucas received a diagnosis of mild brain damage and will require
a kidney transplant in coming years.

But Sandra is not looking forward to that.

She added: "I'm dreading it. The doctors thought he would need the transplant
before now, but he has been able to do without it so far.

"Eventually he will need the operation, which is another thing for us to worry
about."

months Lucas wee boy "  Sandra's younger son, 13-year-old Callum, also has the
microduplication in chromosome one and has autism.

She is proud of her boys and said: "Callum and Lucas have a difficult but loving
relationship.

"One minute they are cuddling, then they are annoying each other. They are like
all teenagers - they like their own space."

Her daughter Lindsay, 22, also has the microduplication, but she is not affected
by it and is currently studying philosophy and religion at Stirling University.

Despite the challenges she faces in looking after her two boys, Sandra has found
time to get on the ballot for this May's council elections.

She explained: "It can be really hard work being an unpaid carer for Lucas and
Callum, but I want to get the word out about some of the issues families in our
area face and how more needs to be done to support people with disabilities."

Sandra, who used to work at the Disability Resource Centre, added: "With it
being Rare Disease Day today, I will be thinking about other families in the
same position as me. " There are lots of families affected by rare illnesses
across Renfrewshire.

"People may not be aware of these conditions and how they can impact on the
lives of families, so Rare Disease Day is a chance for us to reflect on that."

If you are affected by some of the issues raised by Sandra, visit: http://bit.
ly/1EDU8BL

I want to get the word out about some of the issues families in our area face
and how more needs to be done to support people with disabilities Sandra Webster

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: At nine months Lucas was a smiley wee boyLooking smart Lucas is doing
well at school despite his challengesBrotherly love Callum,13, and big brother
Lucas are closeFamily first Sandra, who has dedicated her life to her son Lucas,
was featured in the Express last year when a youngster returned her lost
Christmas savings

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: PDE


                           Copyright 2017 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              190 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                         The Straits Times (Singapore)

                              June 17, 2016 Friday

Boy cured of rare illness after two stem cell grafts;
Doctors in Singapore have cured a baby of Omenn syndrome, the first known case
of the extremely rare disease here. Two-year-old Donovan Tay is now thriving,
after a rocky start in life. The Straits Times talks to the people who made this
possible.

BYLINE: Chang Ai-Lien

SECTION: SCIENCE

LENGTH: 1148 words


It took nine months before Ms Jace Lee saw her baby smile.

What had been an uneventful pregnancy turned into a nightmare for new parents Ms
Lee and her husband, Mr Keith Tay, when Donovan was just two months old.

His nappy rash spread across his entire body, leaving him red, flaky and very
itchy. "Every inch of his body was inflamed and we became really worried when
his ears and neck got sticky and smelly," said Ms Lee, 34, a housewife.

Doctors initially thought he had developed an infection due to severe eczema and
allergies, and started him on an intensive skin care regime. This included
moisturising his body every two hours, and bathing him in a chlorine bath to
help ease the symptoms.

"He was scratching non-stop by rubbing his head and body against the mattress,"
said Ms Lee. "We had to put his hands in silk mittens and put gauze all over him
or his skin would become really weepy and bleed from the scratching."

Even a simple diaper change took 45 minutes because it involved changing all his
dressings.

"He didn't have time to play and his hands were bound all the time," she added.

Then Donovan started vomiting, and did so for a month despite medication and
constant care. But he stopped scratching, and his parents thought he was finally
on the mend.

A visit to the doctor soon set them straight. Donovan had developed a
dangerously high level of sodium in the blood, a consequence of proteins not
playing their part in stopping water from leaking through the skin.

After several weeks at the National University Hospital Paediatric intensive
care unit, doctors managed to bring his sodium levels down, but he remained
small and very thin.

It was during his hospital stint that he came under the care of Dr Soh Jian Yi,
a consultant at the NUH Division of Paediatric Allergy, Immunology and
Rheumatology, and a key member of the medical army who would eventually save his
life.

Faced with his small patient's unexplained fever, unusually severe eczema and
surprising abnormal blood test results, Dr Soh turned medical detective to try
to diagnose Donovan's mysterious illness.

His first clue: The baby had no detectable antibodies in his blood - the body's
weapon against bacteria and viruses. Even a cold could have killed him.

"Every disease has its own time line," explained Dr Soh. "There tends to be a
very specific sequence in which the features of each disease occur."

Dr Soh recalled his readings some years earlier on rare diseases, one of which
resembled Donovan's situation. He pored over the medical literature and
consulted local and international experts. The consensus: It all pointed to
Omenn syndrome, a condition so rare that it has never before been reported in
Singapore.

It is caused by mutations in genes that are critical to the immune system, which
protects the body from infections. If not treated, Omenn syndrome is fatal.

Said Dr Lee Bee Wah, a visiting consultant at the NUH Department of Paediatrics:
"To our knowledge, he is the first case that has been diagnosed in Singapore."

Added Dr Soh: "It's very, very rare; it would be easier to strike the lottery.
But looking at all of the clues in Donovan, nothing else fitted the entire
picture."

The only treatment was a transplant of blood-forming or cord blood stem cells.

Noted Dr Tan Poh Lin, a senior consultant with the hospital's Division of
Paediatric Haematology and Oncology: "Without a transplant, it would have just
been supportive care till death, which would be any time, such as when the most
severe infection struck."

But Donovan was in such bad shape that he could not have survived the procedure
then.

Said Dr Soh: "It was difficult but we didn't have a choice."

There were more hurdles to come. On New Year's Eve in 2014, Donovan collapsed,
his heart stopped and his organs began to shut down. Doctors revived him 18
minutes later. His parents kept vigil at his bedside.

"We kept on getting 'the talk' from the doctors," said Ms Lee. "Be prepared, be
prepared, they said. But on the third day, he opened his eyes."

At the time, he was on dialysis as his kidneys had failed, on a respirator to
help him breathe and on 20 different types of medication. His skin was so
damaged and inflamed that it had turned a black hue.

"There were IV (intravenous) plugs everywhere. He was connected to a whole
'garden' of syringes and tubes," said Mr Tay, 34, a regional risk manager with a
Japanese trading house.

Although he was still very sick, doctors went ahead with the transplant of his
father's stem cells in January last year after discussing it with his parents,
as they felt it was his best chance of survival.

But, said Mr Tay, "after 14 days, his own cells came back and killed Daddy's
cells".

His father's cells did, however, buy him some time, by rescuing him from severe
infections and allowing for a more intensive preparation for his body to receive
a second stem cell graft.

The next month,after chemotherapy again to kill off Donovan's own defective
immune system, Ms Lee was the next donor. This time, the transplant was a
success.

Said Mr Tay: "Visually there wasn't any improvement at first. But then his skin
stopped peeling for the first time, and slowly he began to need less medication
and less support. Slowly he moved from intubator to gas mask to a tube to
breathe. I would like to think that with my transplant, I cleared the way for
Mummy's cells."

Added Ms Lee: "He was still so weak, we had not seen him move for such a long
time. But we celebrated all the little victories, such as one fewer antibiotic.
When he peed, we jumped because it meant his kidneys were working."

As Donovan's blood tests began to show more normal results, his parents allowed
hope to creep in.

He was still "a bag of bones", without the strength to lift his arms. And they
were uncertain if he had suffered brain damage.

"The heartache was to see my baby not being able to move," said Ms Lee, breaking
down for the first time during the interview.

"But his eyes were very expressive. We believed that he was in there somewhere.
We kept believing he was in there."

Gradually, their boy was able to turn his head and move his arms. And, best of
all, he began to smile and laugh. Two months ago, he no longer had to be
tube-fed and could finally eat on his own.

These days, there is no stopping Donovan, whose skin is now smooth and
itch-free. At the family's MacPherson flat, he is always on the go, and
interested in everything.

His overjoyed parents reiterated how grateful they are to the doctors, nurses,
surgeons and therapists for saving Donovan, be it from the ICU, renal, oncology,
immunology or infectious diseases teams.

Said Ms Lee: "For a very long time, he was on the edge. We cannot express how
happy we are now seeing him grow and learn, just like any normal child. Our hope
for him is one that every parent wants, which is for Donovan to be happy and
healthy."

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Two-year-old Donovan developed weepy, flaky skin when he was two months
old. His skin became so inflamed that it turned black. After numerous tests,
doctors discovered he had Omenn syndrome, a very rare disease and a severe form
of immunodeficiency. After two stem cell transplants, he is now on the road to
recovery. With him in the picture are his parents, Mr Tay (left) and Ms Lee, and
Dr Soh, who diagnosed his condition.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2016 Singapore Press Holdings Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              191 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                            January 11, 2011 Tuesday
                                 Mersey Edition

Mother in disease campaign to speak at Lords event

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 199 words


A MERSEYSIDE mother and charity campaigner has been invited to speak at a
prestigious event at the House of Lords on next month's International Rare
Disease Day.

Jayne Hughes set up Amy and Friends after her daughter, Amy, was diagnosed with
the debilitating premature ageing disorder Cockayne Syndrome (CS). It helps
provide support and assistance to other families affected by CS.

It is estimated there are 1.8 cases per million live births in Europe.

February 28 is the fourth annual day dedicated to raising awareness of diseases
like Cockayne Syndrome.

In the UK, around 3.5m people are thought to be affected by 6,000 rare
illnesses.

Jayne, from Wirral, said: "It's an honour to speak on behalf of the children and
families affected by Cockayne Syndrome.

"The cream of the crop of doctors will be there, as well as people who can
influence decisions. I'll be talking about the struggle to get Amy diagnosed and
then what it's like having a child with a rare disease and how I help other
children with the disorder. Everyone's said 'how on earth are you going to be
able to speak for ten minutes?' But there's so much I could talk about - how am
I going to contain it to 10 minutes?"

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Amy Hughes with her mother, Jayne

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: dp


                       Copyright 2011 Trinity Mirror plc
                              All Rights Reserved


                              192 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                             Windsor Star (Ontario)

                            March 24, 2005 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Ottawa weighs costs of rare disease treatment

BYLINE: Sutton Eaves and Sean Myers, CanWest News Service

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A9

LENGTH: 457  words

DATELINE: OTTAWA


OTTAWA - Mackenzie Olsen is just one of dozens of rare disease patients in
Canada who are left without treatment, and perhaps a future, because the
government has no strategy for funding costly but potentially life-saving
therapies.

The nine-year-old Alberta boy, who suffers from an unusual genetic disorder
called Hurler-Schele syndrome, must wait until at least July for Ottawa to
decide if it will pay for his $17,000 per week enzyme replacement therapy.

Mackenzie, a status Indian from the Siksika tribe in Alberta, can only afford
half-doses of the drug Aldurazyme since company-funded clinical trials finished
recently.

Hurler-Schele syndrome, caused by a lack of a certain enzyme called
aL-iduronidase, is eventually fatal, but first causes loss of sight, hearing and
speech, as well as swelling of organs such as the heart and lungs. It's
irreversible.

Mackenzie's parents can't fathom why their boy won't be covered for the
treatment when another child is receiving money from Health Canada for the same
drug to treat a different condition.

"We need help to keep our little boy alive," said his father, Raymond Amato.
"It's not only our son, there are other children out there suffering with this
same disease that are being cut off, if they haven't been cut off already. We
need help for all these children, not just our son."

When asked if there's anything he'll do to help the boy, Health Minister Ujjal
Dosanjh said he's "not God" and the treatment must be assessed by a common drug
review before the government decides if it's cost-effective to supply.

This has outraged the boy's parents and the Assembly of First Nations who want
at least interim coverage for Olsen until the review is done.

"The provinces do not provide coverage for First Nations and the federal
government refuses to cover the costs in this case," AFN Yukon regional chief
Rick O'Brien said Wednesday. "This little boy deserves a chance at life; cost
should not be a factor when it comes to somebody's life."

Mackenzie's treatment, which should be covered by the First Nations Inuit Health
Branch, is just one of several similar therapies caught up in the government's
new drug review process and unavailable to most patients in the interim.

Enzyme replacement therapy for Fabry's disease patients -- called Fabrazyme --
was put through the review in the fall but rejected because it didn't meet
cost-effective standards. After an outpouring of opposition from patients, the
$300,000 a year treatment was sent for a second review, expected to end in May.

"I think that is a scientific issue and that's not an issue that a politician
should be involved in," said Dosanjh. "If politicians start stepping in on
individual cases then I'll be asked to step in every day."

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:
Colour Photo: Lorraine Hjalte, CanWest News Service; AILING: Mackenzie Olsen, 9,
holds hands with his mom Mary Ann Olsen and his dad Ray Amato. Mackenzie needs
medication which can cost more than $17,000 a week, but it is not covered under
health care.

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2005 CanWest Interactive, a division of CanWest Global Communications
                                     Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              193 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                  The Northern Echo (Newsquest Regional Press)

                            July 16, 2014 Wednesday

Doctors find way of treating rare disease

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 294 words


SCIENTISTS at Newcastle University have discovered a way of treating a rare
disease which leads to kidney failure and death in children.

Although there is currently no cure for Joubert Syndrome, the new findings,
published in the journal Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, mean
that it is now possible to develop a therapy to help those suffering with the
condition.

Joubert syndrome is an inherited developmental disorder affecting the brain,
kidneys and eyes. Affected children have a range of problems including learning
difficulties, movement problems, loss of eye sight and life-threatening cystic
kidney disease, often leading to total kidney failure by the age of 13.

A child suffering from this disorder can expect to spend up to 12 hours a day on
dialysis.

More than 4,000 people across the UK require renal replacement therapy (dialysis
and transplantation) due to cystic kidney disease.

Dr John Sayer, a kidney specialist at Newcastle University and the Freeman
Hospital, and Dr Colin Miles, a geneticist at the Institute of Genetic Medicine,
Newcastle University, discovered a cell signalling problem which causes cystic
kidney disease in Joubert Syndrome.

"What is crucial here is that we have shown that the kidney damage in these
patients is not permanent and so can potentially be treated," said Dr Sayer.

"In Joubert syndrome, the kidney cells form abnormal cysts, meaning they are
incapable of carrying out their role properly. We have found this happens
because a defect in the cell's antenna, called the cilium, means the kidney
cells can't communicate with each other properly. Using a new treatment we can
restore this defect."

Several years of research has culminated in the discovery of a drug that can
correct these damaged kidney cells.

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2014 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              194 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                             The Gazette (Montreal)

                            March 24, 2005 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Costly therapy not covered: 9-year-old has rare disease. Health Canada won't pay
for expensive enzyme replacement medication

BYLINE: SUTTON EAVES and SEAN MYERS, CanWest News Service

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 384  words

DATELINE: OTTAWA


Mackenzie Olsen is just one of dozens of rare-disease patients in Canada who are
left without treatment, and perhaps a future, because the federal government has
no strategy for funding costly but potentially life-saving therapies.

The 9-year-old Alberta boy, who suffers from an unusual genetic disorder called
Hurler-Schele syndrome, must wait until at least July for Ottawa to decide if it
will pay for his $17,000-per-week enzyme replacement therapy.

Mackenzie, a status Indian from the Siksika tribe in Alberta, can afford only
half-doses of the drug Aldurazyme since company-funded clinical trials finished
recently.

Hurler-Schele syndrome, caused by a lack of a certain enzyme called
aL-iduronidase, is eventually fatal, but first causes loss of sight, hearing and
speech, as well as swelling of organs such as the heart and lungs. It's
irreversible.

Mackenzie's parents can't fathom why their boy won't be covered when another
child is receiving money from Health Canada for the same drug to treat a
different condition.

"We need help to keep our little boy alive," said his father, Raymond Amato.
"It's not only our son, there are other children out there suffering with this
same disease that are being cut off, if they haven't been cut off already."

When asked yesterday if there's anything he'll do to help the boy, Health
Minister Ujjal Dosanjh said he's "not God" and the treatment must be assessed by
a common drug review before the government decides if it's cost-effective to
supply.

But this has outraged the boy's parents and the Assembly of First Nations who
want at least interim coverage for Olsen until the review is completed.

"The provinces do not provide coverage for First Nations and the federal
government refuses to cover the costs in this case," AFN Yukon regional chief
Rick O'Brien said yesterday. "This little boy deserves a chance at life, cost
should not be a factor when it comes to somebody's life."

Mackenzie's treatment, which should be covered by the First Nations Inuit Health
Branch, is just one of several similar therapies caught up in the government's
new drug review process and unavailable to most patients in the interim.

"I think that is a scientific issue and that's not an issue that a politician
should be involved in," Dosanjh said.

Ottawa Citizen, Calgary Herald

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:
Colour Photo: LORRAINE HJALTE, CANWEST NEWS SERVICE; Mackenzie Olsen, with
parents Raymond Amato and Mary Ann Olsen, needs costly medication that is not
covered under health care.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2005 CanWest Interactive, a division of CanWest Global Communications
                                     Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              195 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            Dayton Daily News (Ohio)

                             May 12, 2016 Thursday

Teen thrives despite rare disease;
Volunteer work earns her town's service award.;
CENTERVILLE/WASHINGTON TWP.

BYLINE: By Pamela Dillon

SECTION: ; Pg. OZNR5

LENGTH: 535 words


Michelle McCalmont, born with Ehlers-Danlos Syndrome, volunteering at a religion
class. She has won the Washington Twp. Community Service Award.

When John and Ingrid McCalmont's second daughter Michelle was born 27 weeks
premature at just 2 pounds, 6 ounces, they were worried about how this would
impact their precious baby. Several months later her mother, who had experience
as a dental hygienist, had a feeling that more than just her size was
problematic.

"Very early, I thought her nails looked funny. And I knew that might indicate
problems with her teeth, cartilage and bones," said Ingrid McCalmont, a
Centerville resident. "Then when she was 2, I was leaving bruises on her chest
just by lifting her out of the tub."

Her intuition was right; Michelle had a rare disease that was finally diagnosed
when she was 3. They were told she had Ehlers-Danlos Syndrome, a hereditary
connective tissue disorder that leads to joint dislocation, fragile bones and
excessive bleeding when injured.

"Doctors told me to keep her off the pavement. I remember thinking 'Ha-ha, all
the kids outside are jumping rope. How are we going to do that?' " remembers
Ingrid McCalmont.

Nevertheless, the McCalmonts decided to keep Michelle active inside by enrolling
her in dance and swim lessons. She joined the South Dayton School of Dance.

"All the teachers there knew about her disease and tried to keep her safe. But
she would still get hurt about once a year," Ingrid McCalmont said. "Michelle
told us she would rather dance and be in a cast once a year instead of not
dancing at all."

That lasted until her freshman year at Centerville, when she broke her ankle and
her elbow, and dislocated her toe within one week of practice for "The
Nutcracker" at CHS. She had to finally put away her dancing shoes. But this left
more time for another activity that Michelle loved - volunteering.

Her empathy for others began when she was a third-grader setting up paper and
crayons for her mother's first-grade class at Incarnation Church. By sixth grade
she was a teaching assistant. Now a CHS senior, she has amassed a total of 700
hours of volunteer service, more than twice the amount of any other National
Honor Society inductee.

Washington Twp. trustees gave her a Community Service Award this past April 18.

"We think that Michelle is a role model and one of the best examples of what is
going right with young people in our community and country," said Stella
McCrory, a CHS guidance counselor who helps coordinate the award.

Michelle said, "I channel my passion into volunteering. Because I have such a
medical problem, I gear my volunteer activities toward people with other medical
problems," she says, who plans to study nursing and French at Ohio Northern
University. "When I'm involved in service activities, I don't think of it as
service at all. It's a hobby to me."

Her volunteer work has included face-painting with the Octagon Club at Dayton
Children's Hospital and assisting at a Build-a-Bear event for cancer patients.

She made trauma dolls for children and raised funds for the Leukemia and
Lymphoma Society. She cares for a 6-year-old boy at church on a regular basis.

Contact this contributing writer at PamDillon@woh. rr.com.

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2016 Dayton Newspapers, Inc.


                              196 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            Dayton Daily News (Ohio)

                              May 5, 2016 Thursday

Teen helps despite rare disease;
Volunteer work earns her town's service award.;
CENTERVILLE/WASHINGTON TWP

BYLINE: By Pamela Dillon

SECTION: ; Pg. OZSD1

LENGTH: 535 words


Michelle McCalmont, born with Ehlers-Danlos Syndrome, volunteering at a religion
class. She has won the Washington Twp. Community Service Award.

When John and Ingrid McCalmont's second daughter Michelle was born 27 weeks
premature at just 2 pounds, 6 ounces, they were worried about how this would
impact their precious baby. Several months later her mother, who had experience
as a dental hygienist, had a feeling that more than just her size was
problematic.

"Very early, I thought her nails looked funny. And I knew that might indicate
problems with her teeth, cartilage and bones," said Ingrid McCalmont, a
Centerville resident. "Then when she was 2, I was leaving bruises on her chest
just by lifting her out of the tub."

Her intuition was right; Michelle had a rare disease that was finally diagnosed
when she was 3. They were told she had Ehlers-Danlos Syndrome, a hereditary
connective tissue disorder that leads to joint dislocation, fragile bones and
excessive bleeding when injured.

"Doctors told me to keep her off the pavement. I remember thinking 'Ha-ha, all
the kids outside are jumping rope. How are we going to do that?' " remembers
Ingrid McCalmont.

Nevertheless, the McCalmonts decided to keep Michelle active inside by enrolling
her in dance and swim lessons. She joined the South Dayton School of Dance.

"All the teachers there knew about her disease and tried to keep her safe. But
she would still get hurt about once a year," Ingrid McCalmont said. "Michelle
told us she would rather dance and be in a cast once a year instead of not
dancing at all."

That lasted until her freshman year at Centerville, when she broke her ankle and
her elbow, and dislocated her toe within one week of practice for "The
Nutcracker" at CHS. She had to finally put away her dancing shoes. But this left
more time for another activity that Michelle loved - volunteering. Her empathy
for others began when she was a third-grader setting up paper and crayons for
her mother's first-grade class at Incarnation Church. By sixth grade she was a
teaching assistant. Now a CHS senior, she has amassed a total of 700 hours of
volunteer service, more than twice the amount of any other National Honor
Society inductee.

Washington Twp. trustees gave her a Community Service Award this past April 18.

"We think that Michelle is a role model and one of the best examples of what is
going right with young people in our community and country," said Stella
McCrory, a CHS guidance counselor who helps coordinate the award.

Michelle said, "I channel my passion into volunteering. Because I have such a
medical problem, I gear my volunteer activities toward people with other medical
problems," she says, who plans to study nursing and French at Ohio Northern
University. "When I'm involved in service activities, I don't think of it as
service at all. It's a hobby to me."

Her volunteer work has included face-painting with the Octagon Club at Dayton
Children's Hospital and assisting at a Build-a-Bear event for cancer patients.
She made trauma dolls for children and raised funds for the Leukemia and
Lymphoma Society. She cares for a 6-year-old boy at church on a regular basis."

Contact this contributing writer at

PamDillon@woh.rr.com

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2016 Dayton Newspapers, Inc.


                              197 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            Dayton Daily News (Ohio)

                              May 5, 2016 Thursday

Teen volunteering time despite rare disease;
Volunteer work earns her town's service award.;
CENTERVILLE/WASHINGTON TWP.

BYLINE: By Pamela Dillon

SECTION: ; Pg. OZSR3

LENGTH: 535 words


Michelle McCalmont, born with Ehlers-Danlos Syndrome, volunteering at a religion
class. She has won the Washington Twp. Community Service Award.

When John and Ingrid McCalmont's second daughter Michelle was born 27 weeks
premature at just 2 pounds, 6 ounces, they were worried about how this would
impact their precious baby. Several months later her mother, who had experience
as a dental hygienist, had a feeling that more than just her size was
problematic.

"Very early, I thought her nails looked funny. And I knew that might indicate
problems with her teeth, cartilage and bones," said Ingrid McCalmont, a
Centerville resident. "Then when she was 2, I was leaving bruises on her chest
just by lifting her out of the tub."

Her intuition was right; Michelle had a rare disease that was finally diagnosed
when she was 3. They were told she had Ehlers-Danlos Syndrome, a hereditary
connective tissue disorder that leads to joint dislocation, fragile bones and
excessive bleeding when injured.

"Doctors told me to keep her off the pavement. I remember thinking 'Ha-ha, all
the kids outside are jumping rope. How are we going to do that?' " remembers
Ingrid McCalmont.

Nevertheless, the McCalmonts decided to keep Michelle active inside by enrolling
her in dance and swim lessons. She joined the South Dayton School of Dance.

"All the teachers there knew about her disease and tried to keep her safe. But
she would still get hurt about once a year," Ingrid McCalmont said. "Michelle
told us she would rather dance and be in a cast once a year instead of not
dancing at all." That lasted until her freshman year at Centerville, when she
broke her ankle and her elbow, and dislocated her toe within one week of
practice for "The Nutcracker" at CHS. She had to finally put away her dancing
shoes. But this left more time for another activity that Michelle loved -
volunteering.

Her empathy for others began when she was a third-grader setting up paper and
crayons for her mother's first-grade class at Incarnation Church. By sixth grade
she was a teaching assistant. Now a CHS senior, she has amassed a total of 700
hours of volunteer service, more than twice the amount of any other National
Honor Society inductee.

Washington Twp. trustees gave her a Community Service Award this past April 18.

"We think that Michelle is a role model and one of the best examples of what is
going right with young people in our community and country," said Stella
McCrory, a CHS guidance counselor who helps coordinate the award.

Michelle said, "I channel my passion into volunteering. Because I have such a
medical problem, I gear my volunteer activities toward people with other medical
problems," she says, who plans to study nursing and French at Ohio Northern
University. "When I'm involved in service activities, I don't think of it as
service at all. It's a hobby to me."

Her volunteer work has included face-painting with the Octagon Club at Dayton
Children's Hospital and assisting at a Build-a-Bear event for cancer patients.
She made trauma dolls for children and raised funds for the Leukemia and
Lymphoma Society. She cares for a 6-year-old boy at church on a regular basis."

Contact this contributing

writer at PamDillon@woh.

rr.com.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2016 Dayton Newspapers, Inc.


                              198 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                       July 19, 2016 Tuesday 6:30 AM EST

Alcobra Granted European Orphan Drug Designation for Metadoxine in Fragile X
Syndrome

LENGTH: 420  words


July 19 -- Alcobra Ltd. (Nasdaq:ADHD), an emerging pharmaceutical company
focused on the development of new medications to help patients with cognitive
disorders, including Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) and Fragile
X Syndrome, today announced that the European Commission (EC) has granted Orphan
Drug designation to Metadoxine for the treatment of Fragile X Syndrome within
the European Union.

EC Orphan Drug designation is granted to drugs that are intended for the
treatment of life threatening or chronically debilitating rare diseases where no
satisfactory therapeutic options exist. The designation provides sponsors with
development and commercial incentives, including 10 years of market exclusivity,
prioritized consultation by the European Medicines Agency on the development of
the drug, including clinical studies, and certain exemptions from, or reductions
in, regulatory fees.

In 2013, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) granted orphan drug status
in the United States to Metadoxine for the treatment of Fragile X Syndrome, and
in 2015, the FDA granted Fast Track designation to our proprietary Metadoxine
Extended Release (MDX) for Fragile X Syndrome.  Fast Track designation is a
process designed to facilitate the development and expedite the review of drugs
that demonstrate the potential to address unmet medical needs in serious or
life-threatening diseases or conditions. Currently, there are no approved
medications in the United States or Europe for Fragile X Syndrome.

About Fragile X Syndrome

Fragile X Syndrome (FXS) is a genetic condition that causes intellectual
disability, behavioral and learning challenges. FXS is the leading known genetic
cause of autism, accounting for about 2-6% of cases. FXS represents an unmet
medical need and a rare disease, as defined by the U.S. Orphan Drug Act.
According to the U.S. National Institutes of Health, approximately one in 4,000
males and one in 8,000 females have FXS.

About MDX

MDX (Metadoxine Extended Release) is a proprietary investigational new drug
candidate being developed by Alcobra for the potential treatment of ADHD and
Fragile X Syndrome. MDX is not a stimulant and acts as a monoamine-independent
modulator of GABA (gamma-aminobutyric acid) transmission. In pre-clinical
studies to date, Metadoxine has shown no potential for abuse or addiction. MDX
is currently in Phase III development for adults with ADHD, Phase II development
for pediatric ADHD, and Phase II development for Fragile X Syndrome.

Source: Alcobra

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2016 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              199 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                              March 4, 2013 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Rare condition gains support

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 93 words


SUPPORTERS of a rare condition have been out in force to mark National Rare
Disease Day.

Volunteers from the Behçet's Syndrome Society visited the Birmingham and Midland
Eye Centre, based at City Hospital site, in Winson Green, Birmingham, to raise
awareness of the painful condition.

Behçet's syndrome causes inflammation of the blood vessels.

Symptoms affect various parts of the body and can include mouth ulcers, genital
ulcers, eye inflammation and skin and joint problems.

Volunteers staffed a stall handing out information on the rare disease to
patients.

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BMM


               Copyright 2013 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved


                              200 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                            January 25, 2016 Monday

Teen boy suffering with rare diseases gets dual chamber pacemaker

BYLINE: Umesh Isalkar

SECTION: PUNE

LENGTH: 273 words


PUNE: A 15-year old boy suffering rare types of neuromascular and genetic
diseases successfully underwent cardiac surgery at Aditya Birla Memorial
hospital here recently.

"Gyaneshwar was not only suffering from Myasthenia graves which is a
neuromuscular disease that leads to muscle weakness and fatigue but he was also
diagnosed with a very rare disease called Kearns Sayre Syndrome at our hospital.
The prevalence of this syndrome is approximately 1-3 in 1,00,000 people. It is a
rare neuromuscular disorder, which leads to heart diseases such as heart block,
progressive paralysis of eye muscles and abnormal accumulation of colored
material on nerve rich membrane lining the eyes leading to chronic inflammation,
progressive degeneration and wearing away of certain eye structures," Rajesh
Badani, senior consultant cardiologist and electrophysiologist of Aditya Birla
Memorial Hospital.

Elaborating, Badani said, "Gyaneshwar was suffering from Myasthenia graves and
was complaining of giddiness and black outs when he was referred to Aditya Birla
Memorial Hospital. He was admitted to the hospital for a pacemaker implantation.
On thorough examination in our advanced pediatrician department, it was
diagnosed that he also had another genetic disorder called Kearns Sayre Syndrome
. A regular pacemaker would not be effective in his case; hence we decided to go
ahead with MRI compatible dual chamber pacemaker implantation. This is the first
implantation of this pacemaker in Pune in a young boy of 15 years."

"My son used to feel weak all the time and complained of giddiness," said
Gyaneshwar's father.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              201 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                                 The Advertiser

                           August 13, 1997, Wednesday

Drugs deal for rare disease victims

BYLINE: Matthew Denholm

LENGTH: 150 words


Treatments for rare diseases will be more easily available following a

deal between Australian and United States drug authorities.

The agreement, known as the Drug Orphan Program, will make it cheaper

and easier for drug companies to market drugs for rare illnesses.

These include leprosy and trachoma, which affect many Outback

Aboriginal communities.

Until now, treatments for such illnesses have not been commercially

viable for manufacturers because of the small number of patients.

Under the changes, drug companies will be able to market treatments

without hefty evaluation fees, and studies by the US Food and Drug

Administration will be used to avoid long, costly trials in Australia.

Other rare diseases include Huntington's chorea, Tourette's syndrome,

Osteogenesis imperfecta, Severe Combined Immune Deficiency syndrome,

Filariasis, Wilson's disease and Narcolepsy.

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: ADV

                   Copyright 1997 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                              202 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                           Taupo Times (New Zealand)

                            February 27, 2015 Friday

Wrapped in love

SECTION: NEWS; GENERAL; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 534 words


When Te Hoka Wanikau was diagnosed with Worster-Drought syndrome his mum Irena
Wanikau felt relief that she and partner Ardie Reihana finally knew what was
wrong. Tomorrow is rare disease day and KIRSTY LAWRENCE spoke with Irena about
life parenting a child with a rare disease.

--------------------

IRENA Wanikau's son has a disease so rare the New Zealand rare disease website
had not even heard of it when she contacted them for help.

She has discovered just two other people in New Zealand who have Worster-Drought
syndrome. They now form her support group to help with the journey faced by her
third child, Te Hoka Wanikau.

Worster-Drought syndrome is a type of cerebral palsy that affects the muscles
around the mouth and throat.

This causes problems with swallowing, feeding, talking, dribbling and other
actions controlled by these muscles.

Irena said the first sign that there was something wrong with Hoka, 4, came when
he was not hitting his milestones as well as her first two children.

Hoka underwent numerous procedures with no answers, but at age four he was
diagnosed with Worster-Drought syndrome.

"Every year we would hope he would grow out of this by the time he went to
school, but when the diagnosis came through we couldn't deny that's what he
had."

She said Hoka's condition had changed the way she could plan her children's
future.

"With my first two I was able to plan their future, they knew before they went
to school they were going to University and their pathway has been pretty
mainstream.

"With [Hoka] I've had to suck it up and come to terms that I have to move the
benchmark and I don't know what his pathway will be . . . for us it's day to
day."

When Hoka was first diagnosed his pediatrician tried to find a support group but
there was nothing in New Zealand.

Irena found a support group based in England that put her in touch with a New
Zealand mother who had a son with WDS.

"I tracked her down on Facebook and her son is 21 years old. She knew of another
mother whose child is 18 so we contacted her.

"It's nice knowing their sons have gone through this journey so I can pick their
brains."

She said she vividly remembered taking her second son to the bank to deposit
money from his piggy bank, and when he was asked what it was for he responded
"university".

She said she knows that is not going to happen for Hoka "but I still want
learning for him".

Making decisions about something as simple as picking a primary school scared
her, as it could determine the difference between a successful future or a hard
future.

"If I make the wrong one then potentially his quality of life will not be as
maximum as it could have been if I had made another decision."

Irene said without the support of his father and grandparents it would be a lot
harder, and she was glad Hoka was surrounded by so much love and support.

"I want to wrap him in as much love and security as possible so he might be just
that little bit more resilient."

--------------------

CAPTION:

CLOSER THEN EVER: Little Te Ariki Wanikau with mum Irena and older brother Te
Hoka who suffers from Worster-Drought syndrome. Irena said their family, along
with Te Hoka's two older siblings, is closer then ever.

Picture: KIRSTY LAWRENCE

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2015 Fairfax New Zealand
                              All Rights Reserved


                              203 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                   Brant News

                            March 2, 2016 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Parent questions new Ehlers-Danlos clinic

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 706  words


As a father of two young children with Ehlers-Danlos Syndrome (EDS), Paul
Willson wants to be positive about Monday's announcement by Health Minister Eric
Hoskins of an Ontario clinic for EDS.

But unanswered questions make it hard for the Brantford resident to fully
support the initiative.

Willson is wondering and worrying about compensation for families like his that
have racked up huge medical bills for operations and medical treatment in the
United States. They can't get treatment in Ontario but the Ministry of Health
won't cover treatment out of the province.

He is also questioning the efficacy of a working group of experts struck as part
of the clinic, when they weren't able to diagnose or treat his children in the
first place.

"I'm sure there are others in the EDS community that have the same questions,"
Willson said on Tuesday.

"Living the life that we're living it would really be nice to have all these
answers as soon as possible," he said.

Willson and wife Chantelle's children Brodie, 5, and Peyton, 4, both have EDS
and tethered spinal cord syndrome.

EDS is a genetic defect in the connective tissue that provides supports to many
body parts including skin, muscles and ligaments. It leads to severe
dislocations, chronic pain, heart problems, mobility issues, lost vision, severe
fatigue and a poor quality of life. It is hard to diagnose and few doctors have
the knowledge to properly treat patients. It affects about one in 5,000 people.

Tethered cord is a neurological disorder caused by tissue attachments that limit
the movement of the spinal cord within the spinal column.

Brodie underwent two surgeries in the United States and younger sister Peyton
has had one operation.

The family is more than US$150,000 in debt for the surgeries. The U.S. hospital
is asking for payments of $2,000 to $3,000 a month, Willson said.

"We're looking at bankruptcy," he said.

"One of the options we've seriously, seriously discussed as a family is selling
our house and moving into our trailer," he said.

Adding to the family's stress, Willson also has EDS and said he thinks he might
have the same tethered cord condition as his children. He's awaiting the opinion
of the same U.S. expert that diagnosed his children after being told by doctors
in Toronto there was nothing in his MRI.

There might be surgery in his future, too.

At least four young people in Brantford-Brant are living with EDS.

Erika Crawford, 20, tearfully told her story to Hoskins at Queen's Park last
fall. She's seen about three dozen specialists and spent hundreds of days in
hospital.

Sixteen-year-old Caroline Smith, a student at Pauline Johnson Collegiate, is
waiting for surgery in the U.S. that will cost her family another US$100,000.
She's already undergone one operation for US$80,000.

The new clinic would help primary-care health providers get information and
guidelines on signs and symptoms, receive feedback from experts on treatment
options, and expedite referrals to specialists.

"The new initiatives our government is pursuing will help people living with
Ehlers-Danlos Syndrome and other rare diseases access the supports they need so
they can receive the highest quality of care close to home," Hoskins said in a
Toronto Star story.

The mandate of the new clinic could eventually be expanded to help doctors and
nurses treat other rare diseases, he said.

Dr. James Rutka, co-chair of the Ehlers-Danlos Syndrome Expert Panel, said "the
establishment of the joint adult and pediatric EDS clinic is a big step forward
in providing multi-disciplinary care and treatment for EDS patients in Ontario."

Brant MPP Dave Levac has been addressing this issue and other rare diseases for
many years and has worked directly with families affected by Ehlers-Danlos
Syndrome in the Brant region.

"I have been pursuing solutions for the health and financial problems faced by
people suffering from Ehlers-Danlos Syndrome and my heart has gone out to the
families in Brant that have had to brave the world with EDS diagnoses," Levac
said in a statement.

"I shall continue to press for a solution to the financial backlog of affected
families," he said.

It is anticipated the new clinic will be opened in 2016-17. A location has not
been named.

- With Metroland Media files

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              204 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                        Progressive Media - Company News

                             January 3, 2014 Friday

NPS Pharmaceuticals initiates global registration study of Teduglutide in
pediatric patients with short bowel syndrome

SECTION: INSURANCE; Product Developments

LENGTH: 254 words



HIGHLIGHT: NPS Pharmaceuticals, a global biopharmaceutical company pioneering
and delivering therapies that transform the lives of patients with rare diseases
worldwide, announced that the company has initiated a global registration study
of teduglutide in pediatric patients with Short Bowel Syndrome (SBS) who are
dependent on parenteral support.


The 12-week, open-label study evaluating teduglutide will be conducted at sites
throughout the US and Europe. The primary outcome measures are the number of
reported adverse events and changes in parenteral and enteral support
requirements, respectively.

"We are particularly proud to advance teduglutide in pediatric Short Bowel
Syndrome, as it may bring us one step closer to fulfilling a significant unmet
need among children across the globe who face a life burdened by this rare
disease," said Roger Garceau, executive vice president and chief medical officer
of NPS Pharmaceuticals. "We look forward to reporting top line results following
the completion of the study in late 2014 or early 2015."

The four-cohort study is expected to enroll up to 36 patients. Non-randomized
subjects will receive teduglutide in each of the three active cohorts for 12
weeks. The study will attempt to enroll a fourth cohort of patients in an
observational arm that would receive a current standard of care with parenteral
support and will be considered a safety control group.

All subjects will be screened prior to the start of treatment to establish
baseline characteristics including safety, eligibility and nutritional support
parameters.

Eligibility includes a current history of SBS for a minimum of 12 months prior
to screening, which resulted from a major intestinal resection and SBS requiring
stable administration of parenteral support for a minimum of three months prior
to enrollment, based upon the opinion of the investigator.

LOAD-DATE: January 07, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2014 Progressive Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              205 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                     The Times & Transcript (New Brunswick)

                           January 12, 2013 Saturday

Deciphering genetic code an eye-opening experience

SECTION: TEEN; Pg. F2

LENGTH: 812 words


The unit we're completing at school now is on genetics in the context of
pediatrics. It has proven to be eye-opening to learn about.

Genetics refers to the study of genetic code. Cells know what they need to do
because they "read" genetic code and follow its instructions. Genetic code in
humans is packaged into 46 chromosomes, which are essentially bundles of DNA.

Genetics explain many things that we see regularly in medical settings and in
the real world. Below are a few examples of what genetics can explain:

? Why do pregnant women miscarry? In an obstetric clinic (clinic for pregnant
women) like the one where I spent a day observing during my internship in
December, miscarriages are often discussed. In the first trimester (first three
months of pregnancy), 20 per cent of women miscarry. For those who want to start
families, miscarriages can be a very difficult experience and there is a popular
belief that if only the miscarriage hadn't happened, everything would have been
OK. However, in reality, the majority of miscarriages are thought to be due to
severe genetic problems (chromosomal anomalies in 40 to 50 per cent of cases) of
the embryo/fetus that make life impossible. Some people are predisposed to
miscarriages due to genetics because of the way their chromosomes are organized
and it takes them more pregnancies to "fall" on one that is genetically suitable
for being carried to term.

? After a human development course last year, I remember a friend and I
wondering just how rare "rare" disease was. Sure, the probability of getting a
specific rare disease is small, but wouldn't the probability of getting any rare
disease be significant? We learned in class recently that about five per cent of
babies are born with physical or mental problems and that a few per cent more
children less than a year old show symptoms of a physical or mental problem that
was probably present, but undiagnosed, at birth. We also learned that the
majority of embryos/fetuses that have major illnesses like Down syndrome (80 per
cent, a disease that increases risk for heart problems and leukemia) and
Turner's syndrome (99 per cent, a disease that increases risk for heart problems
and infertility) are miscarried. It is rare for a fetus with a major illness to
be born, since the same major illnesses that cause problems after birth cause
problems before birth as well.

? Also interesting are the explanations for the appearance of a medical
condition or a trait in one child and not his sibling. There's Mendel's dominant
and recessive inheritance, but there is also X-linked inheritance, mitochondrial
inheritance (mitochondria produce energy through biochemical reactions and are
found in every cell) and random mutations. X-linked inheritance is peculiar
because only girls (who have 46 chromosomes, including two X chromosomes)
receive X chromosomes from both parents. Boys (who have 46 chromosomes,
including one X chromosome and one Y chromosome) receive an X chromosome from
their mother and a Y chromosome from their father. Diseases or traits that are
passed down through X chromosomes, therefore, are inherited the same way in both
genders like diseases or traits in other chromosomes (the ones both genders
have) are. Mitochondrial inheritance is entirely from a child's mother. Children
receive copies of their mother's mitochondria, but not their father's. Random
mutations sometimes explain why no one in a family has a certain medical
condition or trait except for one person.

? You may have heard on the news a few years ago that researchers had managed to
create embryos from the cells of female rodents. Articles were written about how
men were unnecessary since women could now reproduce alone. Afterward though, no
human babies with genetic code from two women were born. Why? Genetic imprinting
distinguishes genetic code that comes from females and males. It silences and
activates some parts of female genetic code and some parts of male genetic code.
Female genetic code allows for the development of embryos, but not of placentas.
This problem, among others, is a roadblock since an embryo needs a placenta to
get through pregnancy.

It is also thought that the X chromosome that a girl receives from her father
has genetic imprinting that is different from the X chromosome that she receives
from her mother, so if she received both X chromosomes from her mother, she
might not have all the genetic code she needs to function optimally.

? Aurélie Paré is an 18-year-old Monctonian currently studying health sciences
at Centre de formation médicale du Nouveau-Brunswick in Moncton. She is the
author of the nationally available The Healthaliciously Good Cookbook. True to
her generation, she maintains a blog (eatinghealthaliciously. blogspot.com) and
enjoys a variety of activities. Suggestions can be sent to
aurelie@aurelieshealthycuisine.com

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2013 The Times & Transcript.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              206 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                    The News

                             March 31, 2017 Friday

This decision will leave Maddi with no chance of survival'

LENGTH: 782  words


A HEARTBROKEN family of a girl with a rare terminal disease have begged the NHS
not to cut funding for potentially life-saving research.

Nine-year-old Maddison Crockford-Reid has such a rare condition - Sanfilippo
syndrome - that there is no cure.

Her devastated family have been struggling to come to terms with the fact she is
unlikely to make it past her late teens since her shock diagnosis in August
2015.

But for the past two years, Maddi has been involved in a clinical trials in
Manchester - at a specialist hospital for Sanfillipo syndrome - for a potential
treatment. This had given the family a much-needed glimmer of hope.

But the NHS and the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (Nice) has
revealed from Saturday, it will no longer pay for the most costly treatments for
people with rare conditions.

Maddi's older sister, Jorden Evans, 21, said she and her loved ones had been
left reeling by the news, saying it was a death sentence for Maddi.

She believes it means that while the existing trial will continue until July,
the drug has no chance of being licensed and future trials will never happen.

Jorden, of Cheltenham Road, Paulsgrove, said: We're just shell-shocked. My mum
is absolutely devastated and hasn't stopped crying.

Having this funding is a massive glimmer of hope for both our family and
families affected by rare diseases.

It feels as though this tiny glimmer of hope has been snatched away from us

There's not a lot for the family of people with rare diseases to hang on to.'

The family have written to Portsmouth North MP Penny Mordaunt who told The News
she will help the family and see what can be done.

Whether a treatment is Nice approved or not, does not itself determine who
should have it on the NHS,' Ms Mordaunt said.

If a treatment would help a person they should clearly receive it and it is
highly unethical to withdraw a treatment someone has been receiving.

I have secured non-Nice approved drugs for other constituents and have also got
Nice guidelines changed.

An issue for rare conditions is that sometimes the specialist healthcare
professionals have not been able to give evidence to Nice because there are so
few of them. This means all the arguments for a drug being Nice approved are not
taken into account. I will see what can be done to help.'

In the UK there are only 24 people affected by Sanfilippo syndrome, with only a
handful having the same ultra-rare version that Maddi has.

The illness means she will eventually lose the ability to walk, talk, see and
hear.

Jorden added: This act by NHS England and Nice is traumatising to say the least.

It would leave families with absolutely no hope for their children.

In our circumstances, it would halt Maddison's current clinical trial and would
stop all future cure' trials from taking place.

This would effectively be leaving the disease to simply "take its course" and
thus leaving her no hope or chance of survival.'

The move will see the introduction of a £100,000 quality-adjusted life year'
threshold for medicines evaluated as part of Nice's technologies programme,
which assesses treatments for ultra-rare diseases.

Campaigners say this threshold would stop the flow of expensive new medicines
reaching patients most desperately in need, with most treatments costing upwards
of £500,000.

Charity leaders claim this is a small price to pay to give the few families in
Britain, coping with ultra-rare illnesses, extra time with their loved ones.

Christine Lavery is the group chief executive of The Society for
Mucopolysaccharide (MPS) Diseases, which supports Maddi's family.

The group is calling for a pause' before any decision is taken.

Speaking to The News, Mrs Lavery said: To penalise these families and children
for the misfortune to have these rare diseases is incomprehensible.

Being born with an ultra-rare disease, a disease affecting less than 110 people
in England, is not a lifestyle choice.

It's no-one's fault.

It happens very rarely but it happened to my son.  At that time, there was no
treatment and Simon died aged seven years.

I can only imagine now how it might be to be faced with a child with an ultra-
rare disease who could be treated with a  highly-specialised medicine but is
denied treatment on cost grounds.

The pain for the family of seeing their child condemned to death is
unimaginable. This is an abuse of people's human rights.'

Jorden added she also wants there to be a pause' to the funding proposals to
allow the government to reconsider them.

The MPS Society has launched a petition against the move, which is at
https://tinyurl.com/lswu6ddA spokeswoman for Nice said it issued guidelines and
local trusts made the final decision on funding trial.

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: JPNS


                       Copyright 2017 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved


                              207 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

             September 19, 2003 Friday Five Star Late Lift Edition

GAUGING A RARE DISEASE

BYLINE: Tina Hesman Of The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 818 words


* About 40 people in the world have Hay-Wells syndrome, which often causes skin
to wear away easily. Doctors are meeting at St. Louis University this week to
study the disease.

Austin Brawner, 12, sat cross-legged in the exam room Thursday as scores of
doctors and scientists filed in to peer at his bandaged feet and the sores
visible under his short blond hair. Austin and six other children with a rare
genetic disorder, called Hay-Wells syndrome, gathered at St. Louis University
for the first symposium on their condition.

Austin, who is from Phoenix, displayed the eye drops and the vented sneakers
that help ease some of the symptoms of his disorder. Like most children born
with Hay-Wells syndrome, Austin's skin wears away easily. The soles of his feet
are so raw that he can't walk far and uses a scooter to get around in school.

Only about 40 people in the world are known to have Hay-Wells syndrome, said
Jodi Edgar Reinhardt of the National Foundation for Ectodermal Dysplasias, the
organization that sponsored the conference. The foundation, based in Mascoutah,
is a support group for families affected by a wide variety of disorders of the
skin, hair, teeth and bones.

The foundation brought scientists and doctors together to discuss the skin
erosion that often accompanies the disease - also called
ankyloblepharon-ectodermal defect-cleft lip and/or palate, or AEC - and how to
heal those wounds.

But the lessons scientists and doctors learn from studying people with such rare
genetic problems could shed light on what goes wrong in more common diseases and
lead to better medicine for everyone.

"We are so ignorant still about what is going on in a cell that any knowledge we
gain from a disease is an enormous help," said Anne Bowcock, joint director of
the division of human genetics at Washington University.

Some exceedingly rare diseases are already providing insight into conditions,
such as aging, that are likely to affect every person, she said. Earlier this
year, scientists working with the Human Genome Project found the gene defect
that leads to Hutchinson-Gilford progeria syndrome, a disease that causes rapid
aging in children. The discovery may help scientists design drugs to slow the
aging process.

Genetic diseases such as Hay-Wells syndrome provide scientists a clearer vision
of the role genes play in development, said Dr. Elaine C. Siegfried, a pediatric
dermatologist at St. Louis University. Many of the genes that go wrong in these
inherited diseases may also play a role in common, complicated disorders such as
diabetes, high blood pressure, heart disease and obesity, she said. But the more
common conditions usually involve multiple genes, and environmental factors
often determine the course of the disease. The rare diseases, caused by
mutations in single genes, may highlight the role of the gene without the
environmental influence.

Research on Hay-Wells syndrome and related disorders, such as
ectrodactyly-ectodermal dysplasia-clefting syndrome - known as EEC - already has
revealed surprising functions for a gene once thought to be involved in
suppressing tumor formation. Earlier this year, a team of scientists led by Hans
van Bokhoven and colleagues at University Medical Center Nijmegen, Netherlands,
showed that Hay-Wells and EEC are caused by defects in different parts of the
same gene. The gene, called p63, is closely related the p53 gene, which is often
involved in cancer.

The scientists don't understand how p63 works or why people with the same
mutation may have different symptoms, van Bokhoven said.

Denyse Shimchick, 26, of East Alton, doesn't know why she, her two children and
her older sister have the same disease but different problems either. But
Shimchick has given chunks of her scalp and palm so that scientists might find
out one day. She brought Dyllan, 5, and Danielle, 4, to the conference so that
researchers could see how the disease sometimes affects members of the same
family differently. She said she doesn't expect the knowledge to benefit her
much but may be a big help when her children are old enough to start families of
their own, she said.

The conference may not lead to cures for Hay-Wells syndrome or better treatments
for burns and other wounds right away, cautioned some experts. The cause of
sickle cell anemia has been known for 20 years, but a cure remains elusive,
Bowcock said. But she is optimistic.

"Understanding genetics in general hasn't led to treatments, but that doesn't
mean that it won't," Bowcock said.

= = = =

Common symptoms

* Fused eyelids

* Cleft lip or palate

* Sparse, coarse hair, few or no eyelashes

* Small or malformed teeth that are prone to decay

* Few sweat glands, low sweat production

* Chronic skin problems, especially on the scalp, hands and feet but that may
affect the whole body

* Hearing loss caused by erosion in the ear canal

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: Reporter Tina Hesman; E-mail: thesman@post-dispatch.com; Phone:
314-340-8325

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Photos by TEAK PHILLIPS / POST-DISPATCH; (1) Color Photo - Levi
Howard, 17, of Phoenix, talks to doctors Thursday about living with Hay-Wells
syndrome. Doctors say studying rare disorders can sometimes provide insights
into more common conditions.; (2) Photo - Levi Howard goofs around with his
mother, Kim Howard, after a science show that was part of a meeting here on
Hay-Wells. They are playing with a device that makes bubbles out of dry ice.

                  Copyright 2003 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              208 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

FOCUS ON THE BRIGHT SIDE OF LIFE WITH ISAAC;
Lottery help for mum of boy who can't smile to raise awareness of rare diseases

BYLINE: STEVE BAGNALL

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 363 words


A MUM who has never seen her son smile is using photography to show a different
side to him.

Same But Different Community Interest Company in Flintshire is a not for profit
organisation that was established by photographer Ceridwen Hughes from Mold.

Her eight-year old son Isaac is living with Moebius Syndrome, an extremely rare
condition that affects muscles controlling facial expressions and eye-control.

And now they are one of 66 community projects across Wales receiving a share of
£250,951 under the latest round of the Big Lottery Fund's Awards for All
small-grants programme.

The organisation receives £5,000 to raise awareness of rare diseases and
syndromes by developing high-quality profiles and case studies of members and
their families who live with rare conditions.

They then publish them on the internet.

Speaking about her family's experience with coping with Isaac's condition,
Ceridwen said: "When Isaac was initially diagnosed our whole life was turned
upside down.

"Whilst this was a really hard time it is the relentless need to explain his
condition over and again that has been the hardest.

"We also found that many of the images on the internet were really depressing
and not really reflective of people or their personalities.

"Because Isaac's condition affects him facially we often feel a need to explain
what it is and how it affects him so they do not make assumptions.

"Isaac has limited speech and can show only a small amount of expression and yet
he is also a funny, strong willed, bright and has an amazing sense of humour, he
loves football and doesn't let anything stand in his way.

"Some people cannot see past the condition and this is very frustrating.

"It is for this reason I decided to use my skills as a photographer to encourage
people to look beyond those first impressions."

Welcoming the funding, Ceridwen said: "That's why I think that Lottery funding
being used for projects like this is so important.

"For children like Isaac and their families, making people more aware that
whilst they have rare conditions they are still people who have feelings and
being able to live without fear that people are staring at, and judging you is
essential."

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Eight-year-old ¦Isaac Hughes with brother Theo and (below) with mum
Ceridwen

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DPW


                       Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror plc
                              All Rights Reserved


                              209 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                      Hamilton Spectator (Ontario, Canada)

                       April 8, 1996 Monday Final Edition

Tot's life hangs on marrow transplant: Despite odds, rare disease threatens
second baby in same London family

SOURCE: CANADIAN PRESS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A6

LENGTH: 516 words

DATELINE: LONDON, ONT.


After Greg and Jackie Kaminski lost their first son to a rare genetic disease,
they were told the odds of having another with the same syndrome were about the
same as their chances of winning the lottery.

"I guess we hit the lottery," Greg says grimly during an interview in the
kitchen of the couple's London home. "Twice," his wife adds.

The Kaminskis' first-born son Justin was just 6 1/2 months old when he died of
severe combined immune deficiency syndrome -- known as SCIDS -- in 1989 when
they lived in Saskatchewan.

SECOND SON

Seven years later, their second son, seven-month-old Mitchell, is fighting the
same disease in Toronto's Hospital for Sick Children after a potentially
life-saving bone marrow transplant in January.

Mitchell Kaminski and a Barrie-area child are currently the only two SCIDS
patients at the Hospital for Sick Children, where most children stricken with
the rare disease are sent.

Chaim Roifman, head of immunology at the hospital, says his department may see
up to 12 SCIDS children a year. And while he says the illness is rare, "we don't
know how rare because there are probably quite a few kids who are missed."

He says SCIDS patients are born with a deficient immune system. "The more they
encounter all types of bugs, the more problems they have.

"On average, they get sick about age six or seven months, and most would not
survive a year or 18 months (without a bone marrow transplant)."

The transplant helps replace the deficient immune system with a healthy one and
Dr. Roifman says it has pushed the survival rate as high as 90 per cent.

Without such a transplant, SCIDS sufferers would die. Researchers are now trying
to identify the genetic mutation that causes the condition in hopes of one day
treating it with gene therapy.

Mitchell Kaminski has been a patient at the Toronto hospital for four months,
while his mother spends 12 hours a day staying with him in his isolation room.

Jackie says the long stretches spent away from her husband and two daughters,
Brianna, 5, and Emily, 2 1/2. "You're not there for your other kids," she says.

But both she and her husband are convinced it's critical she stay close to their
stricken son. "You can see from the other kids on the ward -- the ones that have
their parents there -- how they respond," says Greg.

Jackie tries to keep her son's life as normal as possible, serving his
medication, feeding him and changing his bedding.

The Kaminskis' first son fell sick at three months, but was not diagnosed until
about two weeks before his death -- too late to save him.

Both daughters were tested for SCIDS and were negative. Mitchell was tested at 2
1/2 months "and when the blood work came back, the results looked normal,"
Jackie says.

CRUCIAL

But he wasn't growing normally, so Mitchell was admitted to the Children's
Hospital of Western Ontario and later the Hospital for Sick Children. Jacki
Kaminski is hoping the bone marrow transplant is a success.

"The first year to two years after the transplant is crucial, but after that
they can live a normal healthy life."

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: CP; Greg and Jackie Kaminski, shown with daughters Brianna, 5
and Emily 2, lost first-born son Justin to the same rare disease Mitchell, seven
months, has. Photo: /CP / Mitchell Kaminski: rare disease

                    Copyright 1996 Metroland Media Group Ltd


                              210 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                             The Weekend Australian

                    May 24, 2003 Saturday Preprints Edition

A supporting role

SOURCE: MATP

BYLINE: Margaret O'Rourke

SECTION: FEATURES-COLUMN- HEALTH; Pg. C13

LENGTH: 2132 words


Support groups have become a respected and vital part of the medical industry.

Margaret O'Rourke reports

ON a rainy spring morning in 1971 Margarette Christie was led down a bleak
corridor to the head nurse's office.

Despite the protests of the nurses, Christie pressed her face to the nursery
window as they passed.

There she saw her newborn daughter for the first time.

Although she was a pretty baby she looked different from the others.

Christie could hear her cry through the glass. The baby sounded just like a
kitten.

A grim-faced nurse ushered her into the office where a pediatrician and social
worker were waiting.

Only 18 years old and single, Christie knew her life would be difficult, but
what she heard next shattered what little hope she had.

The doctor told her that her daughter had a chromosomal abnormality.

"She won't smile, walk, talk or ever recognise you. She will be impossible to
care for and she will probably die in infancy," Christie remembers the doctor
saying.

It was expected that the baby would be placed in an institution. At the time,
this was the normal course of events for many children with serious
disabilities.

The social worker assured Christie her daughter would be well cared for and that
she could get on with her life.

Even though Christie had never been allowed to hold her daughter she loved her
already.

"I couldn't put her in an institution. The staff said I'd never manage her, but
that just made me more determined," Christie says.

Christie discovered her daughter, Mindy, actually had a rare genetic disorder
called Cri du Chat.

Cri du Chat is French for cry of the cat, due to the characteristic
high-pitched, cat-like cry of these babies.

Children born with Cri du Chat have a portion of their fifth chromosome missing,
which causes intellectual and physical disabilities that can range from mild to
profound.

Doctors can often diagnose the condition on hearing the distinctive cry, before
even doing a blood test to check the chromosomes.

While children with Cri du Chat are generally loving, spontaneous and joyful,
they also have other characteristics that make caring for them difficult.

Sleeping and feeding problems can be overwhelming. They can suffer from
hyperactivity, unstable moods, and obsessive, repetitive self-harming behaviour
such as head-banging, hitting themselves, and biting.

The following years were difficult for Christie. "I felt alone and distant from
the world, as if I was the only person ever to have gone through this
experience."

Despite the dire predictions of medical staff, and with very little therapy,
Mindy learnt to walk and to express herself, even to entertain others with her
jokes and comments on the world around her.

"Once I started to feel there was something I could do for her, I found the
despair and hopelessness gradually turning into hope," Christie says.

A breakthrough came in 1990, when Christie and another mother started the Cri du
Chat support group.

"It meant so much to us to meet each other. We were amazed at how similar our
children's problems were," Christie says.

"But the best part was being able to help others. After what I had been through
I wanted to make sure no one was as isolated and uninformed as I had been.

"I never dreamt how it would help me. Nineteen years of isolation and loneliness
lifted, leaving me elated," she says.

The widespread use of the internet has led to an explosion in the number of
health support groups that provide information, contacts, advice and comfort for
people struggling to cope with illness.

The advent of the internet has also seen the organisation and clout of support
groups increase.

The ability to link nationally and internationally has created some powerful,
political lobby groups such as NORD, the US National Organisation for Rare
Diseases.

Rare diseases, often known as "orphan" diseases, are defined as conditions that
affect fewer than 1 in 200,000 people.

Continued Page 2

From Page 1

There are 6000 recognised rare diseases including Tay-Sachs disease, hemophilia,
and other more obscure diseases, such as Tyrosinemia and Canavan disease, which
affect only a few hundred people worldwide.

Pharmaceutical companies traditionally have shown little interest in funding
research to develop treatments for rare diseases.

However, 20 years ago many support groups in the US unified to create NORD.
These support groups realised that, although the incidence of each disease was
small, together 25 million Americans suffered from one of these 6000 rare
diseases.

Working as a unified group, they lobbied the US Congress to create legislation
called the Orphan Drug Act, which provided incentives for the development of
treatments for rare disorders.

The result has been significant. According to the NORD website, in the decade
before the Orphan Drug Act was enacted, only 10 new treatments for orphan
diseases were developed.

In the 20 years since it was passed, more than 200 new treatments for rare
disorders have been approved by the US Food and Drug Administration and an
additional 900 are in various stages of development.

More recently NORD has been able to pressure US President George Bush to pass
legislation doubling the budget for research into rare diseases.

The same is true for many support groups in Australia, which are realising their
potential to lobby to improve awareness and increase funding for unknown
diseases.

Thus, when Stephen and Kathy Russell began the VCFS support group in 1987 after
their daughter was diagnosed with Velo Cardio Facial Syndrome (also called
Shprintzen's Syndrome) they had no idea how it would change their lives.

"We started out as a support group to meet up with other families with VCFS. We
soon realised there was a lot of work to do, so we evolved into a foundation to
give the group more leverage for advocacy, lobbying, education and fundraising,"
Kathy Russell says.

VCFS was recognised in the late 70s by Professor Robert Shprintzen. He realised
that a cluster of symptoms he saw in his patients, such as cleft palate, cardiac
problems, learning difficulties and behavioural problems -- as well as up to 183
other possible signs -- were the result of 25 genes missing from the 22
chromosome.

The way the child is affected by this syndrome depends on exactly which genes
are involved.

VCFS is interesting because it is a relatively recently recognised syndrome.
Although it is second only to Down syndrome as the most common human genetic
disorder, and one of the leading causes of birth defects in Australia, it is
relatively unknown in the community.

This means that although VCFS affects about one in 2000 babies in Australia, the
education and health systems do not always cater for them adequately.

"For instance, statistically VCFS must be responsible for many of the learning
difficulties in our schools but at the moment VCFS children don't fit into any
established 'boxes' regarding ascertainment for extra help," Russell says.

Last year the foundation brought world VCFS experts, including the syndrome's
namesake Professor Shprintzen to Brisbane for an international conference.
Doctors, nurses and families gathered to discuss the latest ideas about
management of the condition.

The foundation has further plans to establish a VCFS teaching facility and
clinic in Queensland.

Families living with children suffering from conditions like VCFS and Cri du
Chat are often under tremendous stress. Siblings, not just parents, of these
children also find it difficult to cope.

The family's degree of stress depends on the level of behavioural problems the
affected child experiences and how supported the family feels.

"When a child is diagnosed with a serious disorder, the parents suffer a massive
shock and bereavement, which may go unrecognised in the process of dealing with
the more immediate needs of the child and family," Christie says.

"In our support group, parents talk to others who have experienced the same
situation and they feel a sense of belonging to a group of people with empathy
and understanding born of experience.

"They have little need to explain themselves or their child. They also feel an
acknowledgement of their grief and a permission to grieve which may not have
been their before.

"We understand each other's sadness and joy in a way that others may not,"
Christie explains.

Professor David Sillence from the Clinical Genetics Department at The Children's
Hospital, Westmead, says internet support groups have made a difference to the
lives of many of his patients.

"Some of these children have extremely rare conditions which affect less than
one in a million people. They are very unlikely to meet someone else with the
condition locally.

"They depend on websites like agsa.com.au (The Association of Genetic Support
Australia) which work as a contact point to connect these people to support
groups and contacts all around the world."

There is even an internet support group for those people whose syndromes have no
diagnosis.

The "syndromes without a name" website (www.undiagnosed.clara.net) was set up to
provide information and support and ultimately to gather a database of
information to establish links between cases to help with diagnosis.

According to this website, about a quarter of children with special needs have
no definitive diagnosis. They may have combinations of problems such as
epilepsy, inhibited growth, missing muscles and/or autistic tendencies, which do
not fit under a diagnostic label.

Support groups can provide information that isn't available elsewhere. Where
conditions are very rare, and information is sparse, people from all over the
world can share their experiences and knowledge about living with the condition.

Professor Sillence, however, does warn that not everything on the internet is
helpful. "Some information is out of date, and some is very misleading, so
everyone needs to be careful of what they read on the net."

However, for people like Michelle Gorry, internet support groups have been a
lifeline.

"When the doctor told us our newborn son had Cri du Chat, my mind went numb and
all I could think was, "He has what?"

The doctor had never had a patient with Cri du Chat and she told Gorry there was
only one paragraph in her medical textbook about the condition.

"I cried all the way home and went straight to the internet. "I rang Margarette
Christie and we talked for two or three hours. I just had so many questions and
it was amazing to speak to someone who has been through it all before.

"I just don't know how I would have coped without the support group."

Help for people with rare or lesser known diseases

ADDISON'S DISEASE ASSOCIATION

Based in Australia

www.addisons.org.au

PH: 02 6583 1539

ANGELMAN SYNDROME ASSOCIATION

National Australian group

www.angelmansyndrome.org

PH: 02 9520 5857

AUSTRALIAN SPASMODIC TORTICOLLIS ASSOCIATION

Based in NSW

www.asta.asn.au

PH:02 9719 2226

CANAVAN FOUNDATION

Based in New York

www.canavanfoundation.org/

PH: 212 873 4640

CHILDREN'S LIVER ASSOCIATION

Based in California

www.liverkids.org

PH: 1-877-679-8256

LUPUS ASSOCIATION OF NSW

Based in North Ryde

www.lupusnsw.org.au

PH: 02 9878 6055

LYSOSOMAL DISEASE AUSTRALIA

Based in SA

www.lda.org.au

PH: 08-8161 7393

MUCOPOLYSACCHARIDE AND RELATED DISEASES SOCIETY

Based in Australia

www.mpssociety.org.au

PH: 02 9476 8411

MUSCULAR DYSTROPHY AUSTRALIA

Based in Melbourne

www.mda.org.au

PH: 03 9320 9555

PHENYLKETONURIA ASSOCIATION OF AUSTRALIA

Based in Sydney

www.pkunsw.org.au

PH: 02 9520 3151

POST-POLIO NETWORK

Based in WA

www.upnaway.com.au/poliowa/

PH: 08 9383 9050

PRADER-WILLI SYNDROME ASSOCIATION OF AUSTRALIA

Based in NSW

www.pws.org.au

PH: 02 6345 1998

ROSACEA SUPPORT GROUP

Based in Australia

www.rosacea.ii.net

SCLERODERMA FOUNDATION OF VICTORIA

Based in Fitzroy

www.sclnational.org

PH: 03 9288 3651

SYNDROME WITHOUT A NAME

Based in the UK

www.undiagnosed.clara.net

PH:00 44 01922 701 234

THE ASSOCIATION OF GENETIC SUPPORT OF AUSTRALASIA

Based in Surry Hills, NSW

www.agsa-geneticsupport.org.au/

PH:02 9211 1462

THE CRI DU CHAT SUPPORT GROUP OF AUSTRALIA

Based in Langwarrin, Victoria

www.criduchat.asn.au

PH:03 9561 8134 or 03 9775 9962

THE NATIONAL ORGANIZATION FOR RARE DISEASES

Based in Connecticut, US

www.rarediseases.org/

PH: (203) 744-0100

Provides information on thousands of rare diseases

TOURETTE SYNDROME ASSOCIATION

Based in Victoria

www.tsavic.org.au

PH:03 9845 2700

VELO CARDIO FACIAL SYNDROME

Based in Clayfield, Qld

www.vcfs.com.au

PH:07 3357 5974

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: AUS

                   Copyright 2003 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                              211 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Mirror

                            February 3, 2015 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

None of it seems to faze Jessica.. her strength and courage are what get us
through the hard days;
30 OPS FOR RARE DISEASE GIRL, 6

BYLINE: REBECCA STUBBS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 544 words


A LITTLE girl from Northern Ireland has become one of the most operated on in
the UK after undergoing more than 30 procedures.

Jessica Philpott, from Ballymena, Co Antrim, is just six years old and still
faces more operations to help rectify the effects of a rare disease called Apert
syndrome.

Just 15 people in every million suffer from the syndrome and for Jessica - a P2
pupil at Buick Memorial Primary School in the town - it means she was born with
a protruding forehead, low set ears, fused fingers and toes, cleft palate and
drooping eyes.

Surgeons have now managed to give Jessica hands and feet as well as performing
numerous operations to correct her skull.

Despite all the obstacles put in her way Jessica is thriving in mainstream
school and regularly has horse riding and swimming lessons.

Her mum, Julie, 34, a primary school teacher, said: "To me this wasn't something
terrible, it was a blessing and I feel privileged to be given a child like
Jessica.

"None of it seems to faze Jessica, she smiles through it all and is an
inspiration. Her strength, courage and determination are what get us through the
hard days."

Jessica's mum has lost count of the many procedures her daughter has faced, but
says it is more than 30.

The operations are carried out at the Great Ormond Street Hospital in London and
the family regularly have to fly from their home to the hospital.

Jessica had her last surgery just before Christmas and will have her cleft
palate repaired in the next few months.

Julie said: "When we first went to GOSH my eyes filled with tears.

"I'd seen this place so many times on TV but never in my wildest dreams did I
think I'd be walking through the doors of this hospital with my own child.

"Now it is like our second home and we've made so many amazing friends there."

Over the past six years the family have raised in the region of £10,000 for the
Craniofacial Unit at Great Ormond Street, the unit Jessica has spent so many
days of her life on.

The family were recently sent to Disney- land Paris by Rays of Sunshine and are
now the designated family in Northern Ireland for promoting fundraising efforts
by the charity.

Mum Julie says she is amazed by her daughter every day and, despite Jessica
facing a life of corrective surgery, the family are inspired by their special
little girl.

Julie said: "I knew when she was born that she would receive more love than
anyone could imagine. To each and every one of us she is perfect."

But Julie knows that the next few years will prepare them for the major surgery
needed to rebuild Jessica's face.

The process, she says, will involve a series of operations and will probably
take between four and seven years.

She added: "There are both medical and cosmetic reasons for having it done.

"It involves her jaw being broken and reset, her sockets moved, and her face
rebuilt and she will be fitted with a fr s frame too that will be gradually
screwed and tightened.

"It is a very complex thing and something that we will all have to be prepared
for.

"We will all have counselling in preparation and it's a decision we will all
make together with Jessica."

irish@mgn.co.uk

30 Number of corrective operations Jessica has had to endure already

84 Number of months it may still take to rebuild the tiny schoolgirl's face

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SHE CAN Smiley Jessica.. face on all her BEAR IT puts a brave
difficultiesWHEELY BRAVE After a leg opHAT'S ME With Julie and Lawrie at
DisneylandTOUGH Head in bandagesCHEQUE THIS OUT The family have raised thousands
for charity

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2015 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              212 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                             April 14, 2008 Monday

When an orphan drug is a patient's only hope;
Canada lacks a policy to treat rare - or orphan - diseases, but a motion today
in Parliament seeks to change that

BYLINE: LISA PRIEST

SECTION: NATIONAL NEWS; HEALTH: THE HIGH COST OF RARE ILLNESSES; Pg. A3

LENGTH: 1148 words


When Szymon Cajmer was six years old, he was denied entry into a clinical trial
to test the only drug to treat his rare disease because his lungs worked too
well. Now 11, he suffers from severe hearing loss and he easily loses his
breath.

The drug he did not qualify to receive years ago - idursulfase - has since been
approved by Health Canada to treat his disease, called Hunter syndrome. But now,
Szymon can't obtain the enzyme replacement therapy for a different reason:
Though it is funded in British Columbia and Alberta, it is not in Ontario.

At a cost of about $400,000 a year, the intravenous medicine, known by the trade
name Elaprase, is utterly unaffordable for Szymon's family without government
funding.

So he continues to deteriorate, with spleen and liver enlargement, carpal tunnel
syndrome, damaged heart valves. His joints are so stiff, even the simplest of
acts - putting on a hat - escapes him.

"It really changes the prognosis," Justyna Cajmer said of her son, a Grade 4
pupil. "Because it's a progressive disease, it [the drug] is the only hope for
us to pursue."

Canada's lack of an orphan drug policy - to treat orphan, or rare, diseases -
and the unequal access to medications for these diseases is what North Vancouver
Liberal MP Don Bell is hoping to change when he introduces a private member's
motion today in the House of Commons.

The motion seeks a definition for rare disorders, the possible creation of a
fund to improve access to rare-disease treatments and the consideration of
options to encourage research and development.

Orphan drugs are exorbitantly expensive, largely because of the small numbers of
patients who require them.

For that reason, evaluating clinical trial evidence is also challenging.

Yet society is faced with this question: Can a drug, perhaps the only primary
treatment, be denied to patients if it can help?

The private member's motion also seeks an internationally accepted standard to
evaluate clinical trial evidence.

Without a new standard, drugs for rare diseases are far less likely to be
approved for provincial government funding.

"It's important to have the government commit to a course of action and
acknowledge that there's a problem," said Mr. Bell, who has been working with
Conservative Party MP Steven Fletcher, parliamentary secretary to Health
Minister Tony Clement, on revisions to the motion.

Durhane Wong-Rieger, president of the Canadian Organization for Rare Disorders,
described today's motion as a "huge step."

"This would commit the House to doing something," she said.

The European Union, the United States, Japan and Australia all have orphan drug
policies.

Though the U.S. policy does not necessarily provide access to rare drugs, it has
been successful in providing incentives to pharmaceutical companies to find
treatments for rare diseases.

Britain has one of the best models for orphan drug funding. A national advisory
group aims to help health-care providers by assuring a cash flow to support rare
and expensive treatments.

The drug Szymon requires is funded in Britain; about 45 patients are on it,
according to Ed Wraith, consultant pediatrician at Royal Manchester Children's
Hospital.

Though Elaprase does not cure Hunter syndrome, a progressive disease, it has
been shown to improve some outcomes in patients, such as lengthening walking
distance.

Joe Clarke, senior associate scientist in the Hospital for Sick Children's
Research Institute, who treats Szymon, said some patients feel better on the
drug and have shown improvement in long-standing complications, such as better
airways, joint mobility and energy.

Szymon, who lives in Tecumseh, east of Windsor, would be "an ideal candidate for
enzyme replacement therapy if enzyme replacement therapy was demonstrated as
effective as we hope it is," Dr. Clarke said of the treatment, in a telephone
interview.

The therapy involves a weekly intravenous infusion, which takes about three
hours.

Whether taxpayers should finance such drugs is a particularly troubling ethical
issue.

"Most of us, and that includes any government official I've been involved with,
want very desperately to find a way to help patients in a way that is fair and
effective," said Dr. Clarke, who is also a clinical professor in the University
of Sherbrooke's faculty of medicine.

Ontario Health Ministry spokesman John Yoannou said the Committee to Evaluate
Drugs recommended in June of 2007 that Elaprase not be funded under Ontario's
Public Drug Programs. He pointed out that the Common Drug Review, a national
body, has also recommended against funding the drug.

According to that federal government decision in December of 2007, Elaprase's
high cost - $657,000 annually for a patient weighing 77 pounds - was not
justified given the "lack of evidence of improvement in clinically important
outcomes."

Mr. Yoannou wrote in an e-mail that the government has limited public funds to
pay for all treatments and "decisions are made based on clinically relevant
evidence. In the case of Elaprase, there is insufficient evidence and large gaps
in information."

Laurel Ostfield, press secretary to Ontario Health Minister George Smitherman,
said the ministry is developing a new and innovative approach to how drugs for
rare diseases are reviewed.

"We will take into consideration any information emanating from the proposed
federal legislation as part of this review," Ms. Ostfield wrote in an e-mail.

Paul McCabe, managing director for Canada of Shire Human Genetic Therapies Inc.
- the drug's manufacturer - said Elaprase is approved in about 30 countries.
More than 20 of those countries pay for the drug, be it through private
insurance or government funding, he said.

"These are degenerative diseases, patients are deteriorating slowly every day,"
said Mr. McCabe, noting that the disease is so rare only 20 Canadian patients
would be eligible to take the drug.

He described Szymon's situation as tragic, adding that "if he lived in B.C. or
Alberta, he probably would have been treated for over a year now."

The disease, known medically as mucopolysaccharidosis II, occurs when the
breakdown of a chemical widely distributed in the body outside of cells is
defective. That chemical builds up and causes problems in the form of a large
skull, coarse facial features, joint trouble, abnormal function of multiple
organs and, in particular, heart-valve problems.

For Szymon, it means coming to grips with not being able to do everything his
peers can. He loves playing soccer, though he becomes breathless quickly. And
like every child, he has dreams of what he wants to do when he grows up, though
even his dream - repairing hearing aids for children - is coloured by his
disease.

"It never goes away. You live with it moment by moment," said Ms. Cajmer, his
mother, a registered nurse.

"We feel very much like we have been left out."

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustration

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2008 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              213 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                           October 26, 2016 Wednesday

No help from PM for man who lost all four limbs

BYLINE: Rosamma Thomas

SECTION: JAIPUR

LENGTH: 308 words


JAIPUR: Mithilesh Kumar Gautam, a patient of AIIMS New Delhi who lost all four
limbs to a rare disease is a disappointed man. He had set his hopes on
assistance from Prime Minister Narendra Modi in finding a job, after all his
limbs were amputated. The PMO, however, has responded to his grievance,
submitted online on the PMO website, with a response that says the case is
closed because the PMO has no knowledge of any vacancy that would suit him at
present.On Saturday, PM Modi distributed artificial limbs, tri-cycles,
wheelchairs and other assistive devices to over 8,000 people with disability,
whom the PM calls "divyang" in Gujarat.TOI had reported about Gautam's troubles
on October 13. Nurses and doctors at AIIMS New Delhi, where he has been admitted
since January this year, have been trying hard to find Gautam a job.

The medical staff is also considering contributing towards getting him a
wheelchair. He already has artificial limbs manufactured at AIIMS.Gautam, a
tailor from Rohtas district, Bihar, is the father of a three-year-old daughter.
His wife and father are dependent on him. When this reporter met him at hospital
in New Delhi earlier this month, he expressed confidence that he would land a
job soon with help from PM Modi. That would help him stay on in Delhi and return
to AIIMS for the check-ups he needs.Gautam has been on treatment for Grave's
disease, a condition that affects the thyroid gland, for over 12 years. "Three
years ago his eosinophils were found to be high. This often occurs when there is
an infection but in Gautam's case it was because of a rare disease,
hypereosinophilic syndrome. This led to the loss of all four limbs. He suffers
not only from a rare syndrome but also a rare presentation of this syndrome,"
Varidh Katiyar, the surgeon attending to him, said.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              214 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          Inside Bay Area (California)

                              June 8, 2007 Friday

Rare diseases not easy for most doctors to diagnose

BYLINE: By Suzanne Bohan, STAFF WRITER

SECTION: TRI-VALLEY

LENGTH: 1103 words


Medical students commonly hear the phrase, "If you hear hoof beats, think
horses, not zebras."

The adage reflects a core tenet of the art of medical diagnoses: It's more
productive to first assume common diseases are the cause of most patients'
symptoms, rather than exotic disorders.

That medical mindset was evident when Kaycee Antosiak, a vivacious 12-year-old
Los Altos girl, sought treatment for her crippling pain after a dog bite. While
the bite healed in six weeks, excruciating pain set in, leading the active girl
to collapse after a dance class. She then began using crutches and finally a
wheelchair.

During that time, she visited dozens of medical experts, none of whom could
determine the cause of her increasing infirmity.

Three months after the dog attack, she was referred to a Stanford University
physician, Dr. Elliot Krane, who correctly diagnosed her as afflicted with a
rare genetically linked disease called complex regional pain syndrome. The
condition causes excruciating chronic pain, long after the generally minor
injury that triggered it healed.

"These patients think their foot is immersed in boiling water all of the time,"
said Krane, a pediatric anesthesiologist at Lucile Packard Children's Hospital,
who last week at Stanford led the first conference worldwide to seek faster
diagnoses and better treatment of the condition.

"It just ruins the lives of these kids. The typical kid is in a wheelchair,"
Krane said. Their limbs, he added, are often blue and cold to the touch from
misfiring nerve cells.

Before Kaycee visited Krane, she said, some doctors had suggested the pain was
in her head.

"I told my parents, 'I don't think I'm crazy. My ankle really hurts,'" Kaycee
recalled. Her mother, Donna Antosiak, speaks with a tone of shock at the memory
of that time.

"She was screaming, 'Mommy, mommy, it hurts, it hurts!'" said Antosiak. "I was
going out of my mind."

With the extraordinary challenge of diagnosing these uncommon conditions, and
medical training that encourages doctors to focus on familiar causes of disease,
most patients with rare disorders run through a gauntlet of doctors before --
for the lucky ones -- they end up referred to the unique physician with the
knowledge to correctly pinpoint their disorder.

"I can't think of a single patient I've seen within a month of their onset of
symptoms," Krane said.

"Sometimes it's a year and they're unable to walk," he added. Krane recognized
within minutes the disease afflicting Kaycee when he first saw her in November
2005 and immediately started her on treatment.

Although one doctor told her she'd never walk again, today the 12-year-old is
back in dance class and plans on attending several camps this summer, including
ones for acting, speech, volleyball and Irish dance. Occasionally, she said, her
ankle still aches and she's aware she's vulnerable for life from the condition,
absent the development of a treatment that permanently ends the pain.

Kaycee and others with complex regional pain syndrome are among the ranks of the
30 million Americans suffering from one of the nearly 7,000 known rare diseases,
according to Dr. Steven Groft, director of the Office of Rare Diseases with the
National Institutes of Health.

The NIH defines a rare disease as one affecting 200,000 or fewer Americans.

They carry strange names like Madelung's Disease, which causes abnormal fat
accumulation around the neck and shoulders; Kufs Disease, a neurological
disorder that mimics a mental illness; or the horrific fibrodysplasia ossificans
progressive, which causes muscle tissue and ligaments to turn to bone, encasing
the afflicted in bone.

The prevalence of those living with these unusual conditions numerically rivals
the 40 million Americans with one or more of the three major diseases: heart
disease, cancer or diabetes.

The number of patients identified with a rare disease also is expected to swell
with expanding knowledge of the human genome, said Groft. Rare diseases are
usually attributed to genetics. In fewer cases, they're caused by infectious
agents like viruses or bacteria.

"What we're finding is that as more information becomes available, there are
more and more patients who have the rare disorder," Groft said. "With the
arrival of the Internet, people started putting the pieces together better."

And physicians committed to researching and providing treating for one of these
strange maladies often push into medical frontiers to improve the lives of their
patients.

The Stanford conference on complex regional pain syndrome, held May 30 and 31,
drew dozens of experts from a variety of disciplines. The conference yielded a
consensus paper on better diagnoses and optimal treatment for the condition,
which emphasizes physical therapy with the use of pain medications to ease the
initial agony of exercise, the same therapy Krane used with Kaycee. Krane said
the statement will be published in a leading pediatric medical journal.

These kinds of conferences are vital for improving the medical profession's
track record for diagnosing unique diseases, said Groft. And even though doctors
often have few if any treatments to offer, the diagnosis allows patients and
their families to band with others with the condition to seek the best
treatments and advocate for research.

"Many advocacy groups can help patients live a little better life," said Groft.

Furthermore, the NIH budget for rare disease research is robust, he added.

Of the $29 billion awarded by the NIH last year for medical research grants, $4
billion, or

18 percent, went to studying rare diseases. The grants often fund clinical
trials that give patients with few or no options a chance to try potential
treatments, Groft emphasized.

"That's one of the messages we'd like to get out," he said. "People can get
information on on-going clinical studies, as well as completed ones. So there
can be hope for people with rare diseases."

Kaycee and her mother consider themselves extraordinarily fortunate to have
found Krane and to have the funds for the medical costs.

Donna Antosiak calls Krane "my favorite person in the whole wide world," while
Kaycee said she doubts she would be walking today without his treatment.

"I probably would have gone crazy from the pain," she said.

As for those with less access to sophisticated medical care or with fewer
financial resources, Kaycee shuddered to consider their fate: "I wouldn't want
to find out what happens to them," she said.

For information on NIH-approved clinical trials for treatments for rare
diseases, visit http://www.clinicaltrials.gov .

Contact Suzanne Bohan at sbohan@angnewspapers.com or (650) 348-4324.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2007 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                              215 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                       April 9, 2015 Thursday 6:30 AM EST

Neurotrope Receives FDA Orphan Drug Designation for Bryostatin in Treatment of
Fragile X Syndrome

LENGTH: 428  words


April 9 -- Neurotrope, Inc. (OTCQB: NTRP) today announced that Neurotrope
BioScience, Inc., its wholly-owned operating subsidiary, (the "Company") has
been granted orphan drug designation by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration
(FDA) for its lead proprietary drug candidate, bryostatin, in the treatment of
Fragile X Syndrome (FXS).

Bryostatin is a potent activator of Protein Kinase C (PKC), which the Company
believes is a viable therapeutic approach for the treatment of Fragile X
Syndrome.Neurotrope is developing bryostatin under a licensing agreement with
the Blanchette Rockefeller Neuroscience Institute (BRNI).

"We are pleased to have received orphan drug designation for bryostatin for the
treatment of FXS which represents an area of significant unmet need for patients
and families who live with the consequences of this genetic disorder," said
Charles S. Ramat, President and Chief Executive Officer of Neurotrope, Inc. "One
of the key strategies for our Company's future is the licensing of novel
therapeutics to develop treatments for orphan diseases such as FXS. In keeping
with this strategic imperative, we have also initiated preclinical work with
bryostatin for the treatment of Niemann-Pick type C, a rare devastating genetic
disorder in children.As we progress our clinical development programs for
Fragile X and NPC we continue to work towards building a robust portfolio of
drug development candidates in orphan disease indications."

Orphan drug designation is granted by the FDA Office of Orphan Products
Development (OOPD) to novel drugs or biologics that treat a rare disease or
condition affecting fewer than 200,000 patients in the U.S. The designation
provides the drug developer with a seven-year period of U.S. marketing
exclusivity, as well as tax credits for clinical research costs, the ability to
apply for annual grant funding, clinical research trial design assistance and
waiver of Prescription Drug User Fee Act (PDUFA) filing fees. The OOPD also
works on rare disease issues with the medical and research communities,
professional organizations, academia, governmental agencies, industry, and rare
disease patient groups.

Also commenting on the announcement, Dr. Daniel Alkon, Scientific Director of
BRNI and Chief Scientific Officer of Neurotrope BioScience, Inc., stated, "We
are very encouraged by the pre-clinical data we acquired in a Fragile X mouse
study that suggests treatment with bryostatin can mature synapses and increase
the number of synaptic connections resulting in improved learning and memory."

Source: Neurotrope

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2015 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              216 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                       April 9, 2015 Thursday 6:30 AM EST

Neurotrope Receives FDA Orphan Drug Designation for Bryostatin in Treatment of
Fragile X Syndrome

LENGTH: 428  words


April 9 -- Neurotrope, Inc. (OTCQB: NTRP) today announced that Neurotrope
BioScience, Inc., its wholly-owned operating subsidiary, (the "Company") has
been granted orphan drug designation by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration
(FDA) for its lead proprietary drug candidate, bryostatin, in the treatment of
Fragile X Syndrome (FXS).

Bryostatin is a potent activator of Protein Kinase C (PKC), which the Company
believes is a viable therapeutic approach for the treatment of Fragile X
Syndrome.Neurotrope is developing bryostatin under a licensing agreement with
the Blanchette Rockefeller Neuroscience Institute (BRNI).

"We are pleased to have received orphan drug designation for bryostatin for the
treatment of FXS which represents an area of significant unmet need for patients
and families who live with the consequences of this genetic disorder," said
Charles S. Ramat, President and Chief Executive Officer of Neurotrope, Inc. "One
of the key strategies for our Company's future is the licensing of novel
therapeutics to develop treatments for orphan diseases such as FXS. In keeping
with this strategic imperative, we have also initiated preclinical work with
bryostatin for the treatment of Niemann-Pick type C, a rare devastating genetic
disorder in children.As we progress our clinical development programs for
Fragile X and NPC we continue to work towards building a robust portfolio of
drug development candidates in orphan disease indications."

Orphan drug designation is granted by the FDA Office of Orphan Products
Development (OOPD) to novel drugs or biologics that treat a rare disease or
condition affecting fewer than 200,000 patients in the U.S. The designation
provides the drug developer with a seven-year period of U.S. marketing
exclusivity, as well as tax credits for clinical research costs, the ability to
apply for annual grant funding, clinical research trial design assistance and
waiver of Prescription Drug User Fee Act (PDUFA) filing fees. The OOPD also
works on rare disease issues with the medical and research communities,
professional organizations, academia, governmental agencies, industry, and rare
disease patient groups.

Also commenting on the announcement, Dr. Daniel Alkon, Scientific Director of
BRNI and Chief Scientific Officer of Neurotrope BioScience, Inc., stated, "We
are very encouraged by the pre-clinical data we acquired in a Fragile X mouse
study that suggests treatment with bryostatin can mature synapses and increase
the number of synaptic connections resulting in improved learning and memory."

Source: Neurotrope

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2015 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              217 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                              birminghammail.co.uk

                      August 26, 2016 Friday 11:19 AM GMT

Only twenty people in the world have this disease and Matilda is one of them;
Sensenbrenner Syndrome means Walsall girl grows at a slower rate than other
children

BYLINE: By Anuji Varma

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 565 words


A Black Country girl who is one of an estimated 20 people in the WORLD to suffer
from a rare disease has become the face of a hospital fundraising campaign.

Matilda Hatton, aged seven, from Walsall, has Sensenbrenner Syndrome, but she
wasn't diagnosed until she was three years old because doctors were baffled by
her symptoms.

The disease means she has morphic facial features, shorter limbs and grows at a
slower rate than other children. She was born with only 30 per cent kidney
function and her liver was also abnormal.

Transplant boy dreams of becoming a tennis star after winning gold

Over the years she has had a kidney transplant, and been fed via a tube because
she struggles to swallow food. Little is known about the condition.

Her parents Les, 57, and Michelle, 38, who is Matilda's full-time carer, know of
only one other sufferer - in Canada.

Les, who is also a carer for his nephew, said: "We'd been warned not to look on
the internet, but we did. We've read so many horror stories, but we've had to
try and ignore them. It's so important to think positively.

"During that time when they didn't know what was wrong with her, we were just
living each day as it went.

"Yet she didn't need dialysis until she was four years old, and then two years
later she had her transplant.

"We thought she'd be able to eat solid food afterwards, but she still doesn't.
She tends to put things in her mouth chew it and then take it out.

"She does the same with sweets and chocolates."

Days after Matilda was born she was rushed from Stafford Hospital to Birmingham
Children's Hospital, where she has received treatment and has been monitored
ever since.

It was there that doctors finally told Les and Michelle that they believed their
daughter had Sensenbrenner Syndrome. They were told there were only around 20
sufferers recorded since 1975.

Michelle added: "A woman from Canada messaged us one evening to say her child
also had Sensenbrenner Syndrome. It was such a relief to hear there was someone
else out there. Her little girl looks the spitting image of Matty.

"They were told she wouldn't survive and there was nothing that could be done. I
think it gave them hope and reassured them that they weren't alone."

She explained: "Our little girl is bubbly and active and she doesn't let her
illness get in the way of things. She loves going to school, and mixes with all
the other kids. She puts up a front fighting off any tiredness she gets from the
condition. But it does eventually takes its' toll."

Now Matilda is part of the Star Appeal by Birmingham Children's Hospital, which
is aiming to raise £3.65 million to fund a rare diseases centre at the site.

'We don't know how long our children will live. Every day is precious'

Her picture will go up in Victoria Square along with 11 other youngsters who are
also suffering from a wide range of uncommon conditions next month as part of a
fundraising exhibition.

For Matilda's family a new Rare Diseases Centre would be incredible.

It would help them to "navigate the healthcare system" and find the answers,
information and medical developments they have been searching for all of
Matilda's life.

"It will less time spent in hospital, which is great as we will have more time
to live a normal life," added Les.

* To donate to the appeal log onto
http://campaign.justgiving.com/charity/bchch/starsofsteelhouselane . Or text
"rare" to 70020 (to give £3).

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBEM


                         Copyright 2016 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved


                              218 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                             Yorkshire Evening Post

                              June 12, 2015 Friday

Leeds MP's debate to help little Sam

LENGTH: 294  words


The plight of an Otley schoolboy with an incurable disease will be discussed in
the House of Commons next week when MPs debate the issue of access to drugs for
ultra-rare diseases.

Leeds North West MP Greg Mulholland claims 180 people are being "let down by
faceless bureaucrats" and plans to raise his concerns with health minister
George Freeman during the debate in Parliament on Tuesday from 2.30pm to 4pm.

The 180 people referred to have ultra-rare diseases Morquio Syndrome, Duchenne
Muscular Dystrophy and Tuberous Sclerosis Complex.

They include six year-old Sam Brown, who has the degenerative condition Morquio
Syndrome, which limits growth and mobility and shortens life expectancy to an
average age of 25.

A decision by NHS England on interim funding for the Otley youngster's drug,
Vimizim, is expected on June 25.

If the decision goes not go as campaigners hope, Sam will cease to receive the
drug and his condition will worsen.

Greg Mulholland said: "I'm pleased to have secured the hour and a half debate
next week and I will be using it to hold the health minister to account."

He added: "Sam Brown, and his parents Katy and Simon, all deserve better.

"I and other MPs will be making clear that both ministers and NHS England
seriously need to get their act together. This incompetence has gone on for far
too long."

While there is no cure for Sam's condition, trials have shown Vimizim can slow
its progression. But health regulator NICE has indicated it may not recommend
the drug. Last week it published preliminary findings questioning its value for
money and clinical benefits.

Sam's mum Katy raised the issue with Prime Minister David Cameron, when he was
up in Leeds last month. She said the drug had significantly improved her son's
condition.

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NLEP


                       Copyright 2015 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved


                              219 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                     November 17, 2015 Tuesday 6:30 AM EST

ArQule, National Human Genome Research Institute of National Institutes of
Health Announce Enrollment of First Patient in Phase 1 Proteus Syndrome Trial
with ARQ 092

LENGTH: 510  words


Nov. 17 -- ArQule, Inc. (NASDAQ:ARQL) and the National Human Genome Research
Institute (NHGRI) of the National Institutes of Health (NIH) today announced
enrollment of the first patient in the phase 1 clinical trial for Proteus
syndrome. This trial, with ARQ 092, an orally available, selective pan-AKT
inhibitor, marks the first clinical trial in this rare disease. Proteus syndrome
is characterized by overgrowth of the skeleton, skin, adipose tissue and central
nervous system.

Additionally, ArQule received orphan drug designation from the Federal Drug
Administration (FDA) for ARQ 092 in Proteus syndrome. This marks an important
regulatory milestone and the first orphan drug designation for this population.
Proteus syndrome impacts fewer than one in a million people worldwide.

In 2011, an NHGRI team led by Dr. Leslie G. Biesecker discovered that the
somatic single (point) mutation in the AKT1 oncogene causes Proteus syndrome1.
Subsequently the NHGRI team presented at the 2014 meeting of the American
Society of Human Genetics (ASHG, Abstract # 2180M2) data that demonstrate that
treatment with ARQ 092 caused a rapid shutdown of AKT signaling and a reduction
in the viability of Proteus syndrome cells taken from patients compared to
untreated diseased cells. These findings provided pre-clinical proof-of-concept
for advancement of ARQ 092 into clinical testing for Proteus syndrome.

"The collaboration with ArQule has provided an opportunity to initiate a phase 1
trial to investigate the therapeutic impact of ARQ 092 in a rare, genetic
disorder that has no approved therapy and for which the only current treatment
is surgery," said Dr. Leslie G. Biesecker, M.D., Chief of the Medical Genomics
and Metabolic Genetics Branch at the National Human Genome Research Institute.
"The goal of the trial is to identify a safe and effective dose to treat Proteus
syndrome patients soon after diagnosis. It is hoped the drug, if shown to be
safe and effective and approved by the FDA to treat Proteus syndrome in the
future, could potentially be administered over many years in order to mitigate
the abnormal cell signaling initiated by the point mutation."

"We are excited to continue our collaboration with Dr. Biesecker and the NHGRI
team on the first therapeutic drug clinical trial launched for Proteus syndrome
," said Brian Schwartz, M.D., Head of Research and Development and Chief Medical
Officer at ArQule. "Proteus syndrome is the first rare disease indication to
enter phase 1 for ARQ 092, and we are pleased to have received orphan drug
designation from the FDA. We are also making progress with ARQ 092 in oncology
where we have observed five partial responses in the phase 1b trial in patients
harboring AKT1/PI3K mutations. We hope Proteus syndrome patients, with the same
mutation, will achieve comparable clinical benefit once a therapeutic dose is
established."

The phase 1 trial for ARQ 092 in Proteus syndrome, being conducted by the NHGRI,
is a biodynamic dose finding study. ArQule will be providing ARQ 092 for the
trial.

Source: ArQule

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2015 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              220 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                         Daily Dispatch (South Africa)

                            November 2, 2012 Friday

Doctors moved by plight of boy with rare disease

BYLINE: Poliswa Plaatjie

SECTION: HEALTH

LENGTH: 367 words


Two do best to help sick four-year-old
 By
 TWO East London doctors have come to the aid of a four-year-old boy who suffers
from a rare disease which causes his hands to grow out of proportion to his
body.


 Born in Alice in 2008, the boy suffers from Proteus syndrome, also known as
Wiedemann syndrome. He is not being identified because of his age and severity
of disability.
  It is a congenital disorder that causes skin overgrowth and atypical bone
development, often accompanied by tumours.
 The boy's mother said doctors at Frere Hospital had told her they would only be
able to perform an operation on his hands when he was 10 years old.
 "His condition is not getting any better as they had predicted," she said.
 The Daily Dispatch reported on the child's condition last Thursday and Dr
Nonkosi Ngumbela from Alice was moved by the story. He organised for the boy to
see an orthopaedic surgeon, Dr Steyn Crowther, yesterday. Crowther told the
family that Frere doctors were correct, and that the boy's condition was rare,
which made it difficult for them to do anything for him.

 Crowther said in some cases, Proteus syndrome affected the legs and spine,
making it hard for the patient to walk, but the boy was fortunate as this was
not the case with him.
 "This is a difficult situation because you might get the opposite of what you
are hoping for when he goes for surgery," Crowther said.
 He said surgery could affect the boy's blood supply or if they tried to reduce
his hands, they could actually regrow bigger than what they were at present.
 Moved by the boy's plight, the doctor did not charge for the consultation and
said he would organise for the child to see a doctor in the Free State who could
possibly assist.
 Ngumbela said she would continue to help the family.
 "This is indeed a difficult situation but I am praying and hoping that he gets
help."
 A tearful family friend, Vicky Nkomana, who has been transporting the family
from Alice to East London, said she would take them to the Free State if she had
to.
 "What is impossible with men, is not with God. I believe there will be a way
for this boy and we will not stop until something happens," she said. -
poliswap@dispatch.co.za

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: Daily Dispatch


                    Copyright 2012 BDFM Publishers PTY Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              221 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                               Eastbourne Herald

                             August 4, 2017 Friday

Chance to help Polegate woman with rare disease win a bathroom makeover

LENGTH: 303  words


A woman from Polegate who suffers from a rare syndrome is in the running to win
a bathroom transformation that could help make her bathroom safe to use.

MyBuilder.com, an online marketplace for homeowners to find quality tradesmen,
has teamed up with online bathroom retailer VictoriaPlum.com to find Britain's
Worst Bathroom' and give it a makeover.

The prize is a bathroom transformation with a value of up to £2,000 - including
VictoriaPlum.com products and a MyBuilder tradesperson to complete the work.

More than 400 homeowners from all over the UK have already entered, telling
MyBuilder what winning the prize would mean to them.

Members of the public have already cast over 15,000 votes - and one story that
stands out comes from Polegate resident Sabira Xusni.

Sabira explains: "I've just been diagnosed with a rare disease called
hypermobility syndrome. It means my joints get dislocated and painful all the
time. It's going to take a long time for the council to help as there is a long
waiting list. So, if I will win this competition, it will help me to have a
shower as at the moment I'm struggling to get in and out of the bath tub. It
will also help my daughter because she is the one who is looking after me."

You can read Sabira's story, and vote for her to win the bathroom makeover
prize, here:
https://www.mybuilder.com/competitions/britains-worst-bathroom-2017/entries/5883

Voting closes at midnight on Monday August 7.

According to a survey recently conducted by MyBuilder.com, the vast majority of
people dislike their own bathrooms, with more than two-thirds of people (67%)
saying they were unhappy with it.

Nearly half of all people surveyed (45%) said it was the room in their home they
most wanted to renovate, while 41% admitted to being embarrassed by their
bathroom when friends came to visit.

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: JPEH


                       Copyright 2017 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved


                              222 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                            healthdatamanagement.com

                                   March 2017

NIH leverages facial recognition software to diagnose rare genetic diseases

BYLINE: Greg Slabodkin

SECTION: Vol. 1 No. 1

LENGTH: 616  words


The global fight against rare genetic diseases has a new tool in its arsenal for
early diagnoses of these dreaded conditions-facial recognition software.

Researchers at the National Human Genome Research Institute have successfully
leveraged the software to help diagnose DiGeorge syndrome, a rare genetic
disease that afflicts African, Asian and Latin American children. The technology
has also been used for diagnosing Down syndrome.

According to Maximilian Muenke, MD, chief of the Medical Genetics Branch at
NHGRI, facial features are crucial to the diagnosis of such diseases. However,
Muenke contends that the appearance of individuals with the diseases can vary
widely in diverse populations, making it difficult for clinicians to diagnose.

However, Muenke's colleague Marius George Linguraru, an investigator at the
Sheikh Zayed Institute for Pediatric Surgical Innovation at Children's National
Health System in Washington, developed facial recognition software that is very
accurate in diagnosing DiGeorge syndrome and Down syndrome using photographs of
patients from different ethnic groups.

"Facial landmark" detection is the key, says Muenke. The software measures
facial features such as "distances between eyes, distances between the lips, and
whether the eyes slant upwards or downwards," he adds.

Results of astudy, published last week in the American Journal of Medical
Genetics by Muenke and his colleagues, showed that researchers using the facial
recognition software made correct diagnoses more than 96 percent of the time for
DiGeorge syndrome-also known as velocardiofacial syndrome, which can cause heart
defects, poor immune system function, a cleft palate, and low levels of calcium
in the blood.

Also See:NIH putting in place global rare diseases repository

The effort is part of NHGRI's Atlas of Human Malformations in Diverse
Populations, a website launched last September to serve as an online resource
for clinicians looking to diagnose different inherited diseases through
photographs of people with syndromic disorders and the molecular diagnoses
gathered from around the world, including Asia, the Indian subcontinent, the
Middle East, South America and sub-Saharan Africa.

Muenke, who is co-creator of the atlas, notes that the only previously available
diagnostic atlas featured photos of patients of northern European descent, which
was very limiting in terms of geographic value. "We were leaving out the
majority of the world's population," he says.

"Human malformation syndromes appear different in different parts of the world,"
said Paul Kruszka, MD, a medical geneticist in NHGRI's Medical Genetics Branch.
"Even experienced clinicians have difficulty diagnosing genetic syndromes in
non-European populations."

DiGeorge syndrome and Down syndrome have now been added to the electronic atlas,
which shows the pattern of malformations that are consistent with these
syndromes, according to Muenke. Providers with limited resources or access to
genetic specialists are able to use the atlas and the facial recognition
software for early diagnoses of these rare diseases that often go undiagnosed,
he says.

"We take photos of every syndrome that we can get our hands on," Muenke adds. At
the same time, he relates that there is no identifying personal information on
the atlas website.

Going forward, Muenke says researchers plan to study Noonan syndrome and
Williams syndrome, which are also rare genetic disorders. Nonetheless, he
hastens to add that "the trained clinician is always better than the software,"
and in those areas of the world that have shortages of trained clinicians, then
"the software is so much better" for making diagnoses in those populations.

URL:
http://www.healthdatamanagement.com/news/nih-leverages-facial-recognition-softwa
re-to-diagnose-rare-genetic-diseases

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine


                        Copyright 2017 SourceMedia, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              223 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                   The Daily Independent (Ashland, Kentucky)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                              April 2, 2017 Sunday

Ashland mother tackles son's rare disease day by day

BYLINE: Rachel Adkins, The Daily Independent, Ashland, Ky.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 680 words


April 02--ASHLAND -- Amanda Wesolowski used the term "lifeless" to describe the
condition of her son when he was just 4 months old.

The cause was unknown at the time, as multiple hospitals could not figure out
what was making Ian act this way. Seven days and a trip to Cincinnati Children's
Hospital Medical Center later, Wesolowski finally had an answer that would
forever change the way she and Ian lived their lives.

Ian, who is almost 2 years old now, was diagnosed with a rare genetic disorder
called Bartter syndrome that currently has no cure.

Ian's physician, Dr. Bradley Dixon of Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical
Center, described the disorder as the failure of one of the proteins in the
kidney to properly control how much chloride (salt) is being put in the urine.

This means the patients lose excessive amounts of salt.

"Chloride is very carefully controlled by the kidney, and if you don't have
enough chloride in your body, then other electrolyte disturbances can start to
develop," he said.

The disorder causes Ian to have excessive thirst. He typically drinks between 90
and 120 ounces of fluid a day.

On the other hand, Ian is also often fatigued and frequently urinates.
Wesolowski said Ian goes though around 500 diapers every month.

She explained since Ian does has an unbalanced amount of electrolytes he can
become dehydrated quickly. There is also a chance of seizing and cardiac
arrhythmia.

To help Ian retain electrolytes, he is given potassium and sodium chloride and
other medications through a gastrostomy tube every four to six hours. Ian also
has to have his blood drawn every two weeks to ensure that his levels are
regulated.

"You can read it in a book, but it doesn't really prepare you for what to look
for, like what is daily life going to be," said Wesolowski about dealing with
the disorder.

Dixon also touched on the rarity of Bartter syndrome. He said it only occurs in
one in 100,000 individuals and the prevalence is more common in other countries.

In order to be born with Bartter syndrome, someone must inherit one defective
copy of the gene from their mother and one defective copy of the gene from their
father.

"So mom and dad who each have one bad copy of the gene are healthy. They have no
symptoms," he explained.

Caring for Ian has become a full-time job for Wesolowski, who is also a single
mother. In 2015 she decided it was time to leave her position at Southern Ohio
Medical Center to dedicate all her time to caring for Ian in addition to her
12-year-old daughter Reagan.

Wesolowski said she leans on her faith and family to help her through the trials
Bartter syndrome has presented.

"I pray, I have a great support system. My whole family is really involved with
him and we have a great staff at Cincinnati (Children's Hospital) that calls and
checks on him ... there's lots of encouragement and support. I think that it
helps too that people understand your daily routine is not as you planned it to
be," she said.

Wesolowski added she is also a part of an online community with those affected
by the syndrome.

She explained prior to Ian, she truly did not understand the hardships that come
with raising a child with a disability.

"I never thought about people with disabilities before him ... Now I'm like,
'Wow, those moms that do that with those kids, they're just warriors,'" she
said.

Wesolowski and her family have become involved in fundraising events for Ian and
recently raised money for the second annual Inspiration for Ian campaign which
led up to the Circular Logic Marathon in Lafayette, Indiana, that took place
Saturday.

Several family members, including her sister, marathoner Amy Compston, had relay
marathon teams running for Ian, who was pushed along the course in his stroller
relay style with the runners.

The proceeds will not only go to Ian, but other children fighting various
disorders, Wesolowski said.

(606) 326-2653 |

radkins@dailyindependent.com

___ (c)2017 The Daily Independent (Ashland, Ky.) Visit The Daily Independent
(Ashland, Ky.) at www.dailyindependent.com Distributed by Tribune Content
Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20170402-KA-Ashland-mother-tackles-son-s-rare-disease
-day-by-day-0402-20170402

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: KA


                      Copyright 2017 The Daily Independent


                              224 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                       The Sun Herald (Sydney, Australia)

                             April 19, 2009 Sunday
                                 Third Edition

That's one Elle of a smile

BYLINE: NATASHA SILVA-JELLY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 212 words


MODEL and business mogul Elle Macpherson took a break from a holiday with her
two sons in Sydney last week to step into her role as ambassador of the SMILE
Foundation.

The charity that supports children with rare diseases and their families.

Macpherson met Cameron Sykes, 10, of Five Dock, who has Hunter syndrome, a
genetic disorder that shortens life. Cameron, who wears nappies and has the
mental capacity of a three-year-old, was diagnosed with Hunter syndrome when he
was two. At this stage there is no treatment or cure available to him.

Macpherson - whose sons are Flynn, 11 and Cy, 6 - said there was not enough
awareness of SMILE and not enough government support.

"SMILE stands for supporting medical innovation for life enhancement and I love
that acronym," she said. "One-and-a-half million people are afflicted with a
rare disease in Australia, the same as those suffering from diabetes, yet we all
know about diabetes."

Macpherson, 45, who is scheduled to fly back to her London base this week, said
the trip was a much-needed holiday. The model is busy on a launch for her
lingerie line and is also a face of the cosmetic giant Revlon and an ambassador
for the beauty brand Invisible Zinc.

She has designed a cashmere sweater for her sister-in-law's knitwear labels.

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Glad to meet you ... SMILE Foundation ambassador Elle Macpherson
with Cameron Sykes, 10. Photo: Dallas Kilponen

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2009 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              225 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             April 17, 2017 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Face app helps to spot rare diseases

BYLINE: Mark Bridge

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 450 words


Doctors are using a smartphone app that can scan photos for the facial
characteristics of more than 2,000 genetic syndromes within seconds.

The Face2Gene app is being introduced at St Mary's Hospital, Manchester, to help
in the diagnosis of children with rare conditions. It was developed by a
Boston-based team that includes the creators of the facial recognition software
bought by Facebook.

Its deep-learning algorithm analyses the shape of the face and position of the
eyes, ears, nose and lips, comparing the data with a reference database to list
any genetic conditions that could fit the measurements. In many cases the genes
responsible give patients a distinctive look.

Dekel Gelbman, chief executive of FDNA, the app's creators, said: "We're talking
about rare syndromes such as Williams syndrome, which is characterised by
learning difficulties and cardiovascular problems. There's also a distinct
facial look: the kids look extremely sweet, with this great big smile.
Individually these conditions are rare, but collectively they're common. One in
ten people has a 'rare' disease."

The company stresses that the app does not provide diagnoses, but gives a
helping hand to clinicians. "At the moment parents in the US often wait over
seven years for a diagnosis for a child with a rare syndrome, and in Brit-ain
it's about five years," Mr Gelbman said. "That's much too long. Also, in a lot
of cases there are no therapies because there aren't enough diagnoses or data.
The more children are diagnosed, the more likely it is that treatments will be
developed."

Once a face has been analysed from one straight-on photograph, the app will list
any syndromes that could be associated with those features. Doctors can use that
information to guide their investigations and have the option to input DNA data
from a swab test for analysis alongside the facial data.

Scientists including Peter Hammond, of Oxford University, have been working on
using artificial intelligence to analyse the facial features characteristic of
genetic conditions for many years, making rapid progress.

The US National Institute of Health has developed an algorithm that identified
Down's syndrome in 94 per cent of cases in trials. It says this was impressive
because subjects were from diverse backgrounds and previous algorithms have
tended to be better at recognising indicators in white populations only.

Maximilian Muenke, a geneticist and facial recognition expert who worked on the
software, said: "The aim is for it to be available for every GP in countries
such as the UK that have hugely diverse populations.

"It will also be beneficial in developing countries that do not have a single
trained medical geneticist."

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2017 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              226 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             April 17, 2017 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Face app helps to spot rare diseases

BYLINE: Mark Bridge

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 450 words


Doctors are using a smartphone app that can scan photos for the facial
characteristics of more than 2,000 genetic syndromes within seconds.

The Face2Gene app is being introduced at St Mary's Hospital, Manchester, to help
in the diagnosis of children with rare conditions. It was developed by a
Boston-based team that includes the creators of the facial recognition software
bought by Facebook.

Its deep-learning algorithm analyses the shape of the face and position of the
eyes, ears, nose and lips, comparing the data with a reference database to list
any genetic conditions that could fit the measurements. In many cases the genes
responsible give patients a distinctive look.

Dekel Gelbman, chief executive of FDNA, the app's creators, said: "We're talking
about rare syndromes such as Williams syndrome, which is characterised by
learning difficulties and cardiovascular problems. There's also a distinct
facial look: the kids look extremely sweet, with this great big smile.
Individually these conditions are rare, but collectively they're common. One in
ten people has a 'rare' disease."

The company stresses that the app does not provide diagnoses, but gives a
helping hand to clinicians. "At the moment parents in the US often wait over
seven years for a diagnosis for a child with a rare syndrome, and in Brit-ain
it's about five years," Mr Gelbman said. "That's much too long. Also, in a lot
of cases there are no therapies because there aren't enough diagnoses or data.
The more children are diagnosed, the more likely it is that treatments will be
developed."

Once a face has been analysed from one straight-on photograph, the app will list
any syndromes that could be associated with those features. Doctors can use that
information to guide their investigations and have the option to input DNA data
from a swab test for analysis alongside the facial data.

Scientists including Peter Hammond, of Oxford University, have been working on
using artificial intelligence to analyse the facial features characteristic of
genetic conditions for many years, making rapid progress.

The US National Institute of Health has developed an algorithm that identified
Down's syndrome in 94 per cent of cases in trials. It says this was impressive
because subjects were from diverse backgrounds and previous algorithms have
tended to be better at recognising indicators in white populations only.

Maximilian Muenke, a geneticist and facial recognition expert who worked on the
software, said: "The aim is for it to be available for every GP in countries
such as the UK that have hugely diverse populations.

"It will also be beneficial in developing countries that do not have a single
trained medical geneticist."

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2017 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              227 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             April 17, 2017 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Face app helps to spot rare diseases

BYLINE: Mark Bridge

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 450 words


Doctors are using a smartphone app that can scan photos for the facial
characteristics of more than 2,000 genetic syndromes within seconds.

The Face2Gene app is being introduced at St Mary's Hospital, Manchester, to help
in the diagnosis of children with rare conditions. It was developed by a
Boston-based team that includes the creators of the facial recognition software
bought by Facebook.

Its deep-learning algorithm analyses the shape of the face and position of the
eyes, ears, nose and lips, comparing the data with a reference database to list
any genetic conditions that could fit the measurements. In many cases the genes
responsible give patients a distinctive look.

Dekel Gelbman, chief executive of FDNA, the app's creators, said: "We're talking
about rare syndromes such as Williams syndrome, which is characterised by
learning difficulties and cardiovascular problems. There's also a distinct
facial look: the kids look extremely sweet, with this great big smile.
Individually these conditions are rare, but collectively they're common. One in
ten people has a 'rare' disease."

The company stresses that the app does not provide diagnoses, but gives a
helping hand to clinicians. "At the moment parents in the US often wait over
seven years for a diagnosis for a child with a rare syndrome, and in Brit-ain
it's about five years," Mr Gelbman said. "That's much too long. Also, in a lot
of cases there are no therapies because there aren't enough diagnoses or data.
The more children are diagnosed, the more likely it is that treatments will be
developed."

Once a face has been analysed from one straight-on photograph, the app will list
any syndromes that could be associated with those features. Doctors can use that
information to guide their investigations and have the option to input DNA data
from a swab test for analysis alongside the facial data.

Scientists including Peter Hammond, of Oxford University, have been working on
using artificial intelligence to analyse the facial features characteristic of
genetic conditions for many years, making rapid progress.

The US National Institute of Health has developed an algorithm that identified
Down's syndrome in 94 per cent of cases in trials. It says this was impressive
because subjects were from diverse backgrounds and previous algorithms have
tended to be better at recognising indicators in white populations only.

Maximilian Muenke, a geneticist and facial recognition expert who worked on the
software, said: "The aim is for it to be available for every GP in countries
such as the UK that have hugely diverse populations.

"It will also be beneficial in developing countries that do not have a single
trained medical geneticist."

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2017 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              228 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                            August 2, 2012 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

MUM IN PLEA TO HELP HER ILL DAUGHTER;
Evie-Anne suffers from rare condition

BYLINE: Anuji Varma

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 412 words


A MUM-OF-FIVE is hoping to raise awareness of the rare disease her daughter is
suffering from by holding a four-day conference in Birmingham.

Michelle Peel, 37, of Chelmsley Wood, was told by medics Evie-Anne, then only
nine months old, had the littleknown 1p36 Deletion Syndrome. There are only 35
other recorded sufferers in the UK and Ireland, and 400 worldwide.

Michelle is hoping the conference, which will be attended by many of the
affected British families, will raise the profile of the disorder.

Evie-Anne, aged two, has a catalogue of symptoms, including blindness, epilepsy,
sleep apnea and the inability to eat. She is also unable to speak.

It is a genetic disorder. Those with the syndrome have lost a small but variable
amount of genetic material from one of their 46 chromosomes.

Full-time mum Michelle and husband Mark, 36, a tree surgeon, first noticed there
was something wrong with their daughter when she was five weeks old.

"Evie-Anne lost weight as she was not eating or drinking," Michelle explained.
"Her head was still floppy and she wasn't looking at us. Then she suffered a
fit. I went to the hospital and they couldn't figure out what was wrong with
her."

However, Michelle was determined to find out why her daughter was not developing
properly and scoured the internet to find an answer.

She added: "I thought it was a genetic condition and pushed this further with
the hospital. Eventually Evie-Anne saw specialists at Birmingham Children's
Hospital and they discovered she had 1p36.

"There is so little known about the syndrome that there could be other sufferers
out there.

"There's a conference in America every year but that's difficult to get to for
families so I decided to do something in Birmingham this year."

Michelle has a programme of events lined up for the conference, starting today,
Thursday. They include an information day at Merstone Specialist School, in
Smithswood, an outing to Drayton Manor and a children's party.

"It gives us all the chance to meet up and share our experiences," Michelle
added.

"We can also speak of the different symptoms the children are suffering. We are
trying to start up a charity but this costs money and because people have never
heard of the disorder it makes it very difficult to raise funds.

"If there is anyone out there who has children diagnosed with the condition,
they are urged to come along or get in contact with me."

For more information about the conference, email Michelle at markpeel@gmail.com

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Conference: Michelle Peel with daughter Evie-Anne, who has a rare
disease called 1P36 Deletion Syndrome.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BMM


               Copyright 2012 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved


                              229 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          The Capital (Annapolis, MD)

                            October 22, 2013 Tuesday

St. Mary's alum bicycles across country for a cure

BYLINE: TIM PRUDENTE tprudente@capgaznews.com

SECTION: A; Pg.1

LENGTH: 652  words


Learn more about the 3,000-mile bicycle ride by St. Mary's High School alumni Al
DeCesaris and his charity Crossing America For A Cure by visiting
www.crossingamericaforacure.com. Donations may be made through that website.

There might have been times when Al DeCesaris didn't think he could bicycle
across America.

But after about 3,000 miles and more than 40 days on the road, "Uncle Al" was to
arrive Monday at Davidsonville Elementary School.

There, some fourth-graders already knew about the port-wine birthmark on the
face of their classmate, Jenna Heck. To doctors, it signaled the presence of a
mutated gene and abnormal blood vessels in the brain.

It's called Sturge-Weber syndrome. And it prompted DeCesaris to bicycle across
the country to raise money and spread awareness of his niece's syndrome.

To a 9-year-old girl, the syndrome means seizures one Christmas morning and a
breakfast of oatmeal and nine pills. It means time home from school, with the
shades drawn, waiting for another migraine headache to pass.

To a mother, it means holidays arrive with fear. Excitement triggers Jenna's
seizures, so Christmas gifts are opened slowly, throughout the day. A trip to
Walt Disney World had to be arranged so that Jenna could take her required
afternoon naps.

In the classroom Monday morning, the children were cheering early for DeCesaris'
arrival. Fourth-graders squirmed in their seats and shook toy noisemakers.

Teachers called for quiet, but even they couldn't help smiling at the
enthusiasm, at the posters promising "You can do it."

Perhaps DeCesaris doubted that while pedaling into Cincinnati with cars passing
inches away, or while enduring the Mojave Desert, or fleeing dogs south of
Indianapolis.

A St. Mary's High School graduate, Class of 1991, DeCesaris began last month in
Santa Monica, Calif. He's an attorney now living in California; he will arrive
Tuesday in Ocean City, ending a journey that has raised at least $25,000 for
research into Sturge-Weber.

Retired NFL guard Alan Faneca pledged to match the funds raised. Faneca's
daughter also suffers from the syndrome, said Ida Heck, Jenna's mother.

She's DeCesaris's sister and organized the greeting for her brother Monday at
the school.

T-shirts with the words "Crossing America for a Cure" were passed out to Jenna's
classmates. Noisemakers were distributed. Posters were drawn. And more than 100
students gathered in the parking lot.

"Happy Riding" read Kaitlyn Darnell's poster.

"You can do it" promised Jocelyn Gardner's sign.

"Go Mr. Al!" encouraged Isaac Roh's poster.

DeCesaris arrived and thanked them. He smiled and hugged Jenna. A teacher cried.

"I probably should have invested in a new seat," DeCesaris said, laughing. "I
had a lot of aches and pains."

Children groaned when DeCesaris spoke of bicycling through Pittsburgh (the
Baltimore Ravens lost Sunday to the Steelers). They cheered when he mentioned
how much pizza he ate. They squirmed when he spoke of seeing snakes, tarantulas
and armadillos.

"A lot of people just don't know about (Sturge-Weber syndrome)," he told them.
"It's pretty important to raise awareness."

About one in 20,000 children are born with the syndrome, according to the
Kennedy Krieger Institute in Baltimore.

Researchers there recently identified the mutation that causes the syndrome. It
does not run in families.

DeCesaris' childhood friend, Bob Stanger, is riding with him from Davidsonville
to Ocean City. Money raised from the entire ride will go to the institute's
Hunter Nelson Sturge-Weber Center to fund further research.

Jenna's family also organizes the popular Bands on the Bay fundraiser each
spring at Herrington on the Bay in south county. It has raised more than $1
million in the past eight years for research.

DeCesaris told the fourth-graders about his niece's syndrome. He told them about
bicycling across the country.

And he told them that no matter the cause, everyone can do something to help.

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Al DeCesaris, St. Mary's High School class of 1991 and an attorney now
living in California, began a 3,000-mile, 43-day trek last month in Santa
Monica, Calif. He will arrive Tuesday in Ocean City, ending a journey that's
raised at least $25,000 for research into Sturge-Weber syndrome, a rare disease
that one student at the school suffers from.

GRAPHIC: Al DeCesaris, a graduate of St. Mary's High School, hugs his niece,
Jenna Heck, 9, of Davidsonville. Jenna has Sturge-Weber syndrome, a congenital
neurological disorder, and a port-wine birthmark on her face, a telltale sign of
the syndrome.
St. Mary's High School alumni Al DeCesaris is cheered Monday by students at
Davidsonville Elementary School. DeCesaris spent more than 40 days bicycling
across the country to raise money for research into a rare disease that afflicts
his niece, who is in fourth grade at the school.
St. Mary's High School alumni Al DeCesaris is cheered Monday by students at
Davidsonville Elementary School. DeCesaris spent more than 40 days bicycling
across the country to raise money for research into a rare disease that afflicts
his niece, who is in fourth grade at the school.
Al DeCesaris stands behind his 9-year-old niece Jenna Heck on Monday at
Davidsonville Elementary School. Jenna suffers from a rare condition called
Sturge-Weber syndrome and DeCesaris bicycled across the county to raise
awareness for those afflicted with it.
Al DeCesaris stands behind his 9-year-old niece Jenna Heck on Monday at
Davidsonville Elementary School. Jenna suffers from a rare condition called
Sturge-Weber syndrome and DeCesaris bicycled across the county to raise
awareness for those afflicted with it.
Al DeCesaris bicycled from the Pacific Ocean at Santa Monica, Calif., to
Annapolis and on to the Atlantic Ocean in Ocean City to raise funds to find a
cure for Sturge-Weber syndrome, a congenital neurological disorder that affects
his 9-year-old niece, Jenna Heck of Davidsonville.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2013 Capital Gazette Communications, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              230 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Mercury

                               November 16, 2008
                                 First Edition

Saved by six week coma;
MUM PLACED IN DEEP SLEEP TO BEAT RARE DISEASE EXCLUSIVE

BYLINE: JONNY GREATREX

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 555 words


MEDICS plunged a Midland mum into a six-week coma to save her from a rare
disease.

Juliet Baron, from Alvechurch, Worcestershire, was left temporarily paralysed
after her treatment to save her from the potentially fatal Guillain-Barre
syndrome.

And the 34-year-old BBC production controller had to undergo four months of
gruelling physiotherapy before she was strong enough to return home to her
husband Mark and childrenYasmin, five, and Madison, three.

While in a coma she was treated for double pneumonia and adult respiratory
distress syndrome, which meant both her lungs collapsed.

And while she was recovering she began training for a marathon to raise funds
for the hospital unit which saved her life.

Juliet said she thought she had a cold when she began sniffling in April 2006
but woke one morning and experienced an odd feeling all over.

It took her over a year to fully recover and return to work on the Country File
programme.

"I woke up and felt a tingling sensation throughoutmywhole body and thought this
doesn't feel right," Juliet told the Sunday Mercury.

"I called NHS Direct and they said I should call the emergency GP. When I talked
to him, he mentioned Guillain-Barre syndrome but passed it off as 'a virus'.

"I knew what he was talking about because my dad's wife had had it.

"He said I should take some pain killers and if the symptoms got worse I should
go to see my doctor or go to A&E."

But two days later Juliet said she became delirious and she was rushed to
Alexandra Hospital, in Redditch, where medics quickly diagnosed the potentially
fatal syndrome. The disease sends the immune system into overdrive which then
attacks the nervous system.

Once the condition was identified Juliet was transferred to the High Dependency
Unit at Queen Elizabeth Hospital, and as her state got worse, to critical care
in the Neurosciences Department.

It was here it was decided the only way to save her was to put her into a
medically induced coma.

"The idea was to shut down parts of the body while I was fighting the
infection," said Juliet.

"It also helped the clinical teams treat the symptoms.

"I remember a doctor saying you are going to go to sleep for a while and
thinking, 'that's okay, because when I wake up I will be well again'.

"I didn't realise thenwhat was in store for me."

For six weeks Juliet, whose husband Mark works for IBM, remained unconscious in
her hospital bed. She needed eight tubes in her chest to drain excess fluids
from them, and was then gradually brought round over a period of two weeks.

"I was on so many drugs they had to bring me off very slowly," said Juliet.

"It took a week or two to be fully aware, I went in and out of consciousness."

But despite being over the worst of the condition Juliet was far from fully fit.

Surgeons had to fix her lungs to her rib cage because they were not strong
enough to breath for her unaided.

Spurred on by her near death experience she wanted a new challenge and entered
the five kilometre Race for Life while she was still having physiotherapy.

Not content with that she decided she would take on a marathon and secured a
place in April's Edinburgh event - completing it in five hours, seven minutes
and six seconds raising pounds 5,000 for the Neurosciences Critical Care Unit at
the Queen Elizabeth Hospital.

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Juliet Baron who recovered from a sixweek coma ti run the Edinburgh
Marathon (below) Left: With husband Mark, and daughters Madison, 5, Juliet and
Yasmin, 3 Picture Neil Pugh NP151108Run-5
 Juliet in the Edinburgh Marathon

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2008 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved


                              231 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          Inside Bay Area (California)

                             June 7, 2007 Thursday

Rare diseases not simple for most docs to diagnose

BYLINE: By Suzanne Bohan, STAFF WRITER

SECTION: REVIEW

LENGTH: 1237 words


Medical students commonly hear the phrase, "If you hear hoof beats, think
horses, not zebras."

The adage reflects a core tenet of the art of medical diagnoses: It's more
productive to first assume common diseases are the cause of most patients'
symptoms, rather than exotic disorders.

That medical mindset was evident when Kaycee Antosiak, a vivacious 12-year-old
Los Altos girl, sought treatment for her crippling pain after a dog bite. While
the bite healed in six weeks, excruciating pain set in, leading the active girl
to collapse after a dance class. She then began using crutches and finally a
wheelchair.

During that time, she visited dozens of medical experts, none of whom could
determine the cause of her increasing infirmity.

Three months after the dog attack, she was referred to a Stanford University
physician, Dr. Elliot Krane, who correctly diagnosed her as afflicted with a
rare genetic disease called complex regional pain syndrome. The condition causes
excruciating chronic pain, long after the generally minor injury that triggered
it healed.

"These patients think their foot is immersed in boiling water all of the time,"
said Krane, a pediatric anesthesiologist at Lucile Packard Children's Hospital,
who last week at Stanford led the first conference worldwide to seek faster
diagnoses and better treatment of the condition.

"It just ruins the lives of these kids. The typical kid is in a wheelchair,"
Krane said. Their limbs, he added, are often blue and cold to the touch from
misfiring nerve cells.

Before Kaycee visited Krane, she said, some doctors had suggested the pain was
in her head.

"I told my parents, 'I don't think I'm crazy. My ankle really hurts,'" Kaycee
recalled. Her mother, Donna Antosiak, speaks with a tone of shock at the memory
of that time.

"She was screaming, 'Mommy, mommy, it hurts, it hurts!'" said Antosiak. "I was
going out of my mind."

With the extraordinary challenge of diagnosing these uncommon conditions, and
medical training that encourages doctors to focus on familiar causes of disease,
most patients with rare disorders run through a gauntlet of doctors before --
for the lucky ones -- they end up referred to the unique physician with the
knowledge to correctly pinpoint their disorder.

"I can't think of a single patient I've seen within a month of their onset of
symptoms," Krane said.

"Sometimes it's a year and they're unable to walk," he added. Krane recognized
within minutes the disease afflicting Kaycee when he first saw her in November
2005 and immediately started her on treatment.

Although one doctor told her she'd never walk again, today the 12-year-old is
back in dance class and plans on attending several camps this summer, including
ones for acting, speech, volleyball and Irish dance. Occasionally, she said, her
ankle still aches and she's aware she's vulnerable for life from the condition,
absent the development of a treatment that permanently ends the pain.

While only a few hundred other Americans suffer from the condition, Kaycee and
others with complex regional pain syndrome are among the ranks of the 30 million
Americans suffering from one of the nearly

7,000 known rare diseases, according to Dr. Steven Groft, director of the Office
of Rare Diseases at the National Institutes of Health.

The NIH defines a rare disease as one affecting 200,000 or fewer Americans.

They carry strange names like Madelung's disease, which causes abnormal fat
accumulation around the neck and shoulders; Kufs disease, a neurological
disorder that mimics a mental illness; or the horrific fibrodysplasia ossificans
progressive, which causes muscle tissue and ligaments to turn to bone, encasing
the afflicted in bone.

The prevalence of those living with these unusual conditions numerically rivals
the 40 million Americans with one or more of the three major diseases: heart
disease, cancer or diabetes.

The number of patients identified with a rare disease also is expected to swell
with expanding knowledge of the human genome, said Groft. Rare diseases are
usually attributed to genetics. In fewer cases, they're caused by infectious
agents like viruses or bacteria.

"What we're finding is that as more information becomes available, there are
more and more patients who have the rare disorder," Groft said. "With the
arrival of the Internet, people started putting the pieces together better."

And physicians committed to researching and providing treating for one of these
strange maladies often push into medical frontiers to improve the lives of their
patients.

The Stanford conference on complex regional pain syndrome, held May 30 and May
31, drew dozens of experts from a variety of disciplines. The conference yielded
a consensus paper on better diagnoses and optimal treatment for the condition,
which emphasizes physical therapy with the use of pain medications to ease the
initial agony of exercise, the same therapy Krane used with Kaycee. Krane said
the statement will be published in a leading pediatric medical journal.

These kinds of conferences are vital for improving the medical profession's
track record for diagnosing unique diseases, said Groft. And even though doctors
often have few if any treatments to offer, the diagnosis allows patients and
their families to band with others with the condition to seek the best
treatments and advocate for research.

"Many advocacy groups can help patients live a little better life," said Groft.

Furthermore, the NIH budget for rare disease research is robust, he added. Of
the $29 billion awarded by the NIH last year for medical research grants, $4
billion, or 18 percent, went to studying rare diseases. The grants often fund
clinical trials that give patients with few or no options a chance to try
potential treatments, Groft emphasized.

"That's one of the messages we'd like to get out," he said. "People can get
information on on-going clinical studies, as well as completed ones. So there
can be hope for people with rare diseases."

Krane pointed hopefully to a future in which genetic tests of blood samples will
quickly provide answers to the questions that now vex physicians encountering
patients with mysterious ailments.

"Thirty years from now," he speculated, "all that work is going to be done for
us. Someone is going to plug some blood into a gene array and the answer will
pop out."

Until and if such swift diagnoses of rare diseases come to pass, Groft said
those with disorders that defy treatment can best cope with their frustration
and fear by seeking access to specialists.

"No one can be expected to know that many disorders," he said of the rare
diseases so far identified. "We encourage patients to be referred upward in the
medical system to specialists."

Kaycee and her mother consider themselves extraordinarily fortunate to have
found Krane and to have the funds for the medical costs.

Donna Antosiak calls Krane "my favorite person in the whole wide world," while
Kaycee said she doubts she would be walking today without his treatment.

"I probably would have gone crazy from the pain," she said.

As for those with less access to sophisticated medical care or with fewer
financial resources, Kaycee shuddered to consider their fate: "I wouldn't want
to find out what happens to them," she said.

For information on NIH-approved clinical trials for treatments for rare
diseases, visit http://www.clinicaltrials.gov .

Contact Suzanne Bohan at sbohan@angnewspapers.com or (650) 348-4324.

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2007 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                              232 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               Crookwell Gazette

                                 March 7, 2016

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 311  words


FEDERAL Member for Hume Angus Taylor caught up with Taralga youngster Beau
Cosgrove at Parliament this week to discuss his progress in an Enzyme
Replacement Therapy trial.

Beau, who has a rare disease called Morquio A Syndrome, was accompanied by his
mum Sam. They first met Mr Taylor at the Taralga Show five years ago.

'It was terrific to have Beau and Sam at Parliament House to allow my colleagues
to hear first-hand from Sam just how well Beau is doing as a result of the
trial,' Mr Taylor said.

'Beau and his family have shown tremendous courage and I'm delighted for them
that this drug has helped Beau to just be one of the boys.'

For the past two years Beau has been travelling from Taralga to Westmead
Hospital to participate in the trial. Sam said the family was amazed by the
difference the drug Vimizim was making.

'After the first week on the trial I immediately noticed he had more energy,'
she said.

'Last Christmas he had his swimming lesson, went to the oval and played cricket
with the local kids. He then played at sports club and danced to his favourite
country songs until 8pm. He was up and going the next day with no need to
recover and no complaints of pain.'

Mr Taylor said Morquio A Syndrome was part of a group of disorders known as
Mucopolysaccharidoses (MPSs), which impacts the body's ability to produce an
enzyme to break down waste products. The enzyme deficiency causes progressive
damage to cells and tissues throughout the body, heart and other organ failure,
and reduced life expectancy.

The event at Parliament House was to raise awareness and support of rare
diseases in the lead up to International Rare Disease Day, on Monday 29
February.

Sam, Beau and the MPS Society are lobbying for Vimizim to be approved by the
Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme, with Mr Taylor making representations to the
Minister for Health on behalf of the family.

LOAD-DATE: March 08, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2016 Fairfax Media Publications Pty. Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              233 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                         Business Mirror (Philippines)

                            March 19, 2015 Thursday

Out of the dark

BYLINE: John Carlo Odchigue

LENGTH: 1094  words


Fighting something that you know nothing about is a dreadful and unimaginable
experience. People afflicted with rare diseases are going through the same
thing.

It is especially hard for them because they have to go through various medical
examinations and in some cases, serve as a guinea pig to indentify the exact
disease that is plaguing their lives.

A rare disease also referred to as an orphan disease is any disease that affects
a small percentage of the population. Most are genetic and are present
throughout the persons entire life. Some orphan diseases are ignored, such as in
unique cases of Malaria, because they are considered to be far more prevalent in
developing countries. People suffering from rare diseases, often endure harsh
treatments due to insufficient resources, which is why public awareness and
support is important.

Recent data from the World Health Organization show that there are 7,000 known
rare diseases, 50 percent to 70 percent of which affect children, while 30
percent of patients die before they reach the age of five.

According to the Philippine Society for Orphan Disorders (PSOD), a group of
medical professionals from the Institute of Human Genetics, the prevalence of
rare diseases in the country is 1:20,000, with 227 patient families in the PSOD
registry representing 48 rare disorders as of 2014.

Late last year we witnessed several celebrities and personalities participate in
the ice bucket challenge. The online charity campaign was created to raise
awareness and financial funding for ALS, which stands for Amyotrophic Lateral
Sclerosis, a rare condition, which assaults ones neurons and eventually leads to
paralysis. Local celebrities like Kris Aquino, Daniel Padilla, Dingdong Dantes,
Marian Rivera, businessmen Andrew Tan and Kenneth Yang gladly joined the cause
and made donations.

Overwhelming support for the campaign has brought to light the disease.
Unfortunately there are still quite a few rare diseases that have yet to make it
to the publics collective consciousness.

Here are some of the rare diseases in the country:

Blue Rubber Bleb Nevus Syndrome (BRBNS)

It is characterized by numerous malformations of the venous system that
significantly involves the skin and visceral organs. One such case in the
country is Ziv Morejon, at first she was diagnosed with hemagioma then later
identified as blue rubber. Zivs body needs one blood unit a day, five times a
week to keep her hemoglobin from dropping. Blood transfusion is expensive and
this is usually the case with other orphan diseases, as well. The medical
expenses are financially draining, which is why Ziv and her family rely from the
government for the treatment.

Maple Syrup Urine Disease (MSUD)

AffectING 126 Filipinos as of 2014, most of which were infants, MSUD is the top
orphan disease in the country based on the data by the PSOD. It is an inherited
disorder in which the body is unable to process certain protein building blocks
(amino acids) properly.

The condition gets its name from the distinctive sweet odor of affected infants
urine and is also characterized by poor feeding, vomiting, lack of energy
(lethargy) and developmental delay.

If untreated, maple syrup urine disease can lead to seizures, coma, and death.
Maple syrup urine disease is often classified by its pattern of signs and
symptoms. The most common and severe form of the disease is the classic type,
which becomes apparent soon after birth. Variant forms of the disorder become
apparent later in infancy or childhood and are typically milder, but they still
involve developmental delay and other health problems if not treated.

Mucopolysaccharidoses (MPS)

Currently second to MSUD in the number of cases listed in the PSOD. There are
specific types of Mucopolysaccharidoses, but the most common Type is type 2.
Also known as Hunter syndrome, it is a condition that affects many different
parts of the body and occurs almost exclusively in males. A progressively
debilitating disorder; however, the rate of progression varies among affected
individuals.

Affecting 49 Filipinos, the mean age of confirmation of diagnosis in the country
is 5 years old. Filipino patients with Hunter syndrome exhibit the
characteristic multiorgan involvement seen in most patients with the disorder,
thus, their management requires a multidisciplinary approach.

Several other organs and tissues are affected in MPS II. Individuals with this
disorder often have a large head (macrocephaly), a buildup of fluid in the brain
(hydrocephalus), an enlarged liver and spleen (hepatosplenomegaly) and a soft
out-pouching around the belly-button (umbilical hernia) or lower abdomen
(inguinal hernia).

Galactosemia

It is an orphan disease, which affects newborn babies and currently affects 12
in the country. Infants with galactosemia develop clinical symptoms after
ingesting lactose from milk and milk products. The orphan disease elevates blood
galactose levels. It may be due to a deficiency of any of the three enzymes of
the galactose catabolic pathway: galactose-1-phosphate uridyltransferase
(Gal-1-PUT), galactokinase, or UDP-galactose-4-epimerase.

Clinically, deficiency of galactose-1-phosphate uridyltransferase (Gal-1-PUT)
has become synonymous with classic galactosemia. This autosomal recessive
disorder occurs with an incidence of approximately 1:40-60,000 in the general
population.

Galactosemia and its acute complications can be prevented by early diagnosis
through newborn screening. Consequently, early institution of management
following early diagnosis is also achievable. Nonetheless, long-term
complications from galactosemia can still occur despite early diagnosis and
treatment.

Thus, regular monitoring and evaluation are necessary for this is a rare defect
that manifests only by the development of cataracts, usually in the neonatal
period, but occasionally delayed until adulthood. The symptoms can be severe in
infancy and may lead to death or severe neurologic damage if not recognized and
treated.

It all starts with awareness, then funding and research. By doing your part in
raising awareness for these orphan diseases, you are changing someone elses
life. Educate yourself, start by visiting the PSOD website.

With Senate Bill No. 2098, or the "Rare Disease Act of 2014,(EURO)Â³ which calls
on the government to make sure that persons with rare disease would be given
access to proper medical treatment and medication, on its way. Filipinos
afflicted with rare diseases should be assured that this is a battle which they
can win. This is the right time to step  and start living.

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2015 Business Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved


                              234 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 2, 2009 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Pfizer Deal Signals a Move Into Treating Rare Diseases

BYLINE: By ANDREW POLLACK

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 746 words


The world's largest drug company is thinking small.

Pfizer said Tuesday that it had licensed the worldwide rights to a treatment for
Gaucher disease, a rare genetic disorder, from Protalix Biotherapeutics, an
Israeli biotechnology company.

The deal signals the start of an effort by Pfizer to enter the business of
selling ultra-expensive drugs for ultra-rare diseases, a market that big
pharmaceutical companies once largely ignored.

And the move will put the company into direct competition with Genzyme, the
biotechnology company that already sells a drug called Cerezyme to treat Gaucher
disease.

Genzyme has been struggling to recover from a severe shortage of Cerezyme
brought about by manufacturing problems.

Pfizer will pay Protalix $60 million initially and up to $55 million later. The
companies will split expenses to market the drug and the revenue from its sales
on a 60-40 basis, with Pfizer having the larger share.

Protalix is close to filing its application for federal approval of the drug.
The product, called taliglucerase alfa, could reach the market next year.

Although analysts viewed the deal as a validation of Protalix's drug and its
novel manufacturing process, shares of Protalix fell nearly 14 percent, to
$8.51, apparently because investors were disappointed that Pfizer did not
acquire the company. Pfizer's shares rose nearly 4 percent, to $18.85.

Protalix makes proteins that serve as drugs in genetically engineered carrot
cells that grow inside plastic bags. That is far less costly, it says, than the
process used by most biotechnology companies, including Genzyme, which is to use
genetically engineered hamster ovary cells growing in stainless steel tanks.

That will probably mean that Protalix's taliglucerase will be cheaper than
Cerezyme, though executives at Pfizer and Protalix declined to discuss the price
on Tuesday.

Big pharmaceutical companies once tended to disregard rare diseases, preferring
to develop blockbusters for common ailments like diabetes and high cholesterol.
But with sales growth slowing and older blockbusters losing patent protection,
the companies have become more willing, even eager, to sell specialized drugs.

''This is the first step in the pursuit of a formal strategy around orphan drugs
and rare diseases,'' David Simmons, president of Pfizer's established products
business unit, said in an interview.

While there might be few patients with each disease, he said, ''collectively,
it's a very large patient population with a great unmet medical need.''

Besides, Genzyme has proved that even a drug for a rare disease can generate big
sales if the price of the drug is high enough. Only about 5,700 people in the
world are being treated with Cerezyme. But since the drug costs about $200,000 a
patient each year, sales exceeded $1 billion last year.

Pfizer is not alone in pursuing treatments for rare diseases. In October,
GlaxoSmithKline announced a deal with Prosensa, a Dutch company, to develop
drugs for Duchenne muscular dystrophy. And in June, Novartis won approval from
the Food and Drug Administration to sell its drug Ilaris as a treatment for
cryopyrin-associated periodic syndrome. Only about 300 Americans suffer from
that syndrome, an inflammatory condition caused by a gene mutation.

Philip Nadeau, an analyst at Cowen & Company, called the entrance of Pfizer as a
competitor a ''modest negative'' for Genzyme. However, Mr. Nadeau said, ''even
Pfizer's marketing prowess is unlikely to relieve'' safety concerns some doctors
have about the Protalix drug. The main concern is that because it is produced in
plant cells, taliglucerase may spur immune reactions in some patients.

Genzyme's stock rose a bit less than 1 percent, to $51.11. The company announced
Monday that it had resumed shipping some newly manufactured Cerezyme.
Manufacturing had been shut down in June after a virus contaminated the
company's factory in Boston.

The shortfall left Genzyme vulnerable to Protalix and also to Shire, a British
drug company that is also developing a drug for Gaucher disease. Because of the
shortage, the Food and Drug Administration has been allowing some patients to
use the Shire and Protalix drugs even though they have not been approved.

Gaucher disease is an enzyme deficiency that can cause an enlarged liver and
spleen, anemia, frequent bleeding and bone weakness. All three drugs consist of
the enzyme that people with Gaucher disease are missing.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              235 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                 irishmirror.ie

                      February 2, 2015 Monday 8:04 PM GMT

Mum of brave six-year-old who has endured over 30 operations: "Her strength and
courage are what get us through the hard days.";
Jessica Philpott from Ballymena has become one of the most operated on patients
in the UK after she was born with rare disease

BYLINE: By Rebecca Stubbs

SECTION: FEMALE,HEALTH

LENGTH: 518 words


A little girl from Northern Ireland has become one of the most operated on in
the UK after undergoing more than 30 procedures.

Jessica Philpott, from Ballymena, Co Antrim, is just six-years-old but faces
many more operations to help her rectify the effects of a rare disease called
Apert syndrome.

Apert syndrome affects fifteen people in every million and in Jessica, a P2
pupil at Buick Memorial Primary School in the town, it means she was born with a
protruding forehead, low set ears, fused fingers and toes, cleft palate and
drooping eyes.

Surgeons have now managed to give Jessica hands and feet as well as numerous
operations to correct her skull.

Despite all the obstacles put in her way Jessica is thriving in mainstream
school and regularly has horse riding and swimming lessons.

Jessica's mum, Julie, 34, a primary school teacher, said: "To me this wasn't
something terrible, it was a blessing and I feel privileged to be given a child
like Jessica.

"None of it seems to faze Jessica, she smiles through it all and is an
inspiration, her strength, courage and determination are what get us through the
hard days."

Jessica's mum has lost count of the many procedures her daughter has faced, but
says it is more than 30.

The operations are carried out at the Great Ormond Street Hospital in London and
the family regularly have to fly from their home to the hospital.

Jessica had her last surgery just before Xmas and will have her cleft palate
repaired in the next few months.

Julie said: "When we first went to GOSH my eyes filled with tears.

"I'd seen this place so many times on TV but never in my wildest dreams did I
think I'd be walking through the doors of this hospital with my own child.

"Now GOSH is like our second home and we've made so many amazing friends there."

Over the past six years the family have raised in the region of £10,000 for the
Craniofacial Unit at GOSH, the unit Jessica has spent so many days of her life
on.

The family were recently sent to Disneyland Paris by Rays of Sunshine and are
now the designated family for Northern Ireland, promoting fundraising efforts by
the charity.

Mum Julie says she is amazed by her daughter every day and, despite Jessica
facing a life of corrective surgery, the family are inspired by their special
little girl.

Julie said: "I knew when she was born that she would receive more love than
anyone could imagine, it didn't matter about all the physical abnormalities, to
each and every one of us she is perfect."

But Julie adds that the next few years will prepare them for the major surgery
needed to rebuild Jessica's face. The process, she says, will involve a series
of operations and last between four and seven years.

She added: "There are medical and cosmetic reasons for having it done.

"It involves her jaw being broken and reset, her sockets moved, and her face
rebuilt and she will be fitted with a frame too that will be gradually screwed
and tightened.

"It is a very complex thing and something that we will all have to be prepared
for.

"We will all have counselling in preparation and it is a decision we will all
make together with Jessica."

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBMGNIRIS


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              236 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                Wales on Sunday

                               February 28, 2010
                                  1st Edition

Learning to live with the pain of infertility;
Today is Rare Disease Awareness Day, which highlights the 170,000 people across
Wales whose lives have been affected by unusual medical conditions. ABBIE
WIGHTWICK spoke to one of the sufferers

BYLINE: ABBIE WIGHTWICK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 644 words


NEVER being able to have a child of her own has been devastating for Clare
Clements.

Clare, 45, was born without ovaries as a result of the ultra-rare condition
Turner Syndrome.

She was told as a child she would probably never have children but says it only
really hit home when she was a teenager.

"I remember being 15 or 16 and sitting on a bus after an appointment with my
specialist and realising what infertility really meant," she recalls.

"It's a whole part of life that's been denied and it has a habit of rearing its
head at unexpected mo-ments."

By the time Clare was in her late 30s, infertility treatment had moved on and
she and her husband decided to try IVF with an egg from a donor as she could not
produce her own.

Clare, who works as a civil servant, praised doctors at the University Hospital
of Wales in Cardiff, but said the process had been emotionally draining.

"I got married in 1996 and it was four or five years later before we decided to
try IVF with an egg donor," she explains.

"I knew it was the only solution. It wasn't painful physically but there was the
emotional thing.

"I tried it once but they couldn't build my womb up enough, so it didn't work. I
didn't want to go through it again."

Clare, who lives in Adamsdown, Cardiff, says her 42-year-old husband has always
been supportive but they have both suffered.

"Infertility does affect your partner. It hits both of you," she says. "It's
something you learn to live with but the pain of it never goes away.

"You think about Christmas and times like that and get weepy moments."

Clare has now turned her attention to helping other sufferers get faster
treatment and diagnosis.

Turner Syndrome, which also impairs growth, does not run in families. Few people
have heard of it and it has no obvious symptoms until puberty.

As a result many sufferers don't find out they have the condition until they are
too old to fully benefit from growth hormone treatment. The condition, a
chromosomal disorder, occurs randomly and affects only females.

Impaired growth means sufferers reach an average height of 4ft 3in to 4ft 9in -
Clare herself is 4ft 9in.

As patients are born without ovaries they are often alerted only when puberty
fails to start, although growth hormones are only fully effective if taken from
as young as eight.

"I was lucky. I was diagnosed when I was 10 or 11," explains Clare.

Clare's parents persuaded doctors to investigate her short height but no one
connected her ear, nose and throat problems, which were also symptoms of the
disease. Clare hopes telling her story will help improve awareness among GPs,
hospital doctors and parents.

"If we can get ear, nose and throat doctors thinking 'She's short and has
chronic ENT problems, we should test for TS' that would be ideal," she says.

"I had my tonsils out and grommets in my ears by the time I was seven, but I
wasn't diagnosed with TS until I was 10 or 11, although it was all connected."

Clare says even if she'd been diagnosed earlier it wouldn't have changed her
infertility as that could not be treated.

She says she was teased at school for being short and believes she has missed
out on work opportunities because of her height.

"People tend to treat you as if you're younger than you are," she says.

Clare says she has always been open about her condition with her husband and
could not have got through the heartache without him.

"You have to be completely honest from the start," she says.

As Turner Syndrome affects one in every 2,500 girls and women, it is classed as
a rare disease.

TURNER SYNDROME CAUSES Short stature - sufferers are always under between 4ft
3in and 4ft 9in high Hearing problems Difficulties in concentration and spatial
awareness Infertility - All women with Turner syndrome either have no ovaries or
ovaries that do not function High blood pressure

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  HEARTBREAK: Clare Clements, who suffers from Turner Syndrome, is
supporting Rare Disease Awareness Day. PICTURE: LIZ PEARCE ©

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: ws


                    Copyright 2010 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              237 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                Launceston Times

                               November 21, 2011

Rare disease hits home

BYLINE: By ALEX DRUCE

SECTION: NEWS - GENERAL

LENGTH: 240  words


AN extremely rare disease has hit close to home for a Launceston family.

Launceston university student Keisha Nielsen said her six-year-old niece
Kirniesha was diagnosed with Cloves Syndrome in April this year.

At this stage, Kirniesha is one of only two in Australia and 55 in the world to
be diagnosed with the disease.

Cloves is an overgrowth disorder, with symptoms that vary from mild soft-tissue
tumours to vascular malformations encompassing the spine or internal organs.

Kirniesha weighed only 825 grams when she was born prematurely in 2005, after
X-rays showed she had stopped growing in her mother's womb.

Miss Nielsen said doctors were initially puzzled by Kirniesha's condition.

"But we were relieved to finally learn it had a name," she said.

"It is a start."

Miss Nielsen said there could be more Australian families affected by Cloves
Syndrome who didn't know it yet.

"It is a very newly recognised disease, and not a lot of people have heard about
it," Miss Nielsen said.

"The more people understand what Cloves is about, the more support there will be
out there."

Miss Nielsen has raised almost $1000 for the Cloves Syndrome Foundation through
support from local businesses and by selling awareness bracelets.

For her 21st birthday, she asked for small donations to the foundation instead
of presents.

"Everyone has their own personal cause to support, and this is one that is close
to home for me.

"It's family."

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2011 Fairfax Media Publications Pty. Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              238 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                             Kidderminster Shuttle

                           February 27, 2014 Thursday

Kidderminster mother calls for Rare Disease Day support

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 424 words


A MOTHER-of-two who is one of only 200 people reported to have suffered with
Maffucci Syndrome hopes that more research can be carried out into the extremely
rare disease.

Tor Leak-Jones, of Kidderminster, was diagnosed with the rare bone and skin
disorder when she was 17 after being originally diagnosed with Ollier's Disease
at 18 months old.

She hopes to fund more research into the disease by hosting a family fun event
in aid of the SCAT Bone Cancer Trust on Saturday at Wilden All Saints CofE
Primary School as part of Rare Disease Day.

Miss Leak-Jones, 33, said: "My consultants have said they had only seen one or
two patients who have got a tumour at the base of the skull the same as me. It's
scary, even the professionals haven't got all the answers.

"Nobody's affected the same. I'm only affected on my left-hand side and other
people are affected both.

"When I was 18 my tumour became malignant. I've had a few amputations, including
my little finger, and I've had to have two leg lengthening operations."

The condition also causes blood vessels to gather, known as hemangiomas, in Miss
Leak-Jones' organs. A recent painful build up in her liver meant she had to
leave her job as a classroom assistant at Chaddesley Corbett Primary School.

She added: "It was another hurdle and another shock of finding out that these
hemangiomas are building. I'm waiting to see a liver specialist. I'm feeling a
lot better now but they don't know if it could happen again.

"My condition puts a lot of pressure on my right side as well as the day to day
pain of the left hand side. The right side is over-compensating.

"When you stop and think about it, you have got this condition that does make
your life very different and it's not just physically, it's mentally. Mentally,
I've struggled since I was about 15.

"It's coping with the condition that makes you look a bit different, made you
miss school and have lots of operations and hospital visits.

"Managing pain every day is exhausting in itself. I've got two children, there's
no time to sit down or have a sleep."

Rare Disease Day is a global initiative taking place tomorrow that aims to raise
awareness of rare diseases and the impact they can have on sufferers and their
families.

The family fun event in Stourport will feature face painting, a raffle, name the
teddy, a singer and pianist, an auction and karaoke from 6pm.

To donate search for SCAT bone cancer trust page at uk.virginmoneygiving.com and
note the donation is for Maffucci Syndrome.

Email leak.victoria@googlemail.com for more information.

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2014 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              239 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                        Townsville Bulletin (Australia)

                             June 8, 2013 Saturday
                                  1 - Edition

Rare diseases testing docs

BYLINE: Sue Dunlevy

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 391  words


ALIEN hand syndrome where the patient's hand develops a will of its own and can
attack its owner is one of hundreds of new and rare medical conditions making
diagnosis harder for doctors.

There are about 10,000 medical diagnoses doctors must choose from when
confronted with a sick patient and about 200 new conditions are discovered each
year, a US expert said.

The rate of medical discovery has experts worried that doctors can't keep up
with the pace of change and they fear this may be adding to the risk of a
patient being misdiagnosed.

Diagnostic error expert Dr Mark Graber, former chief of medicine at Department
of Veteran Affairs in New York, estimates that 10-15 per cent of the medical
diagnoses made by doctors are wrong and he says several thousand Australians
will die every year because their doctors get it wrong.

Almost one in three patients who seek a second medical opinion have a diagnostic
error discovered, he said.

Many of the new diseases doctors must keep abreast of are inconsequential
variations in common viruses but others are significant.

Alien hand syndrome can occur when a person has had the two hemispheres of their
brain surgically separated to control epilepsy or it can be the result of a
stroke, infection or tumour.

Another example of a rare disease is yellow nail syndrome where the patient's
nails are thick and yellow, their limbs are swollen and suffer respiratory
problems.

``Many genetic diseases are just being discovered . . . diagnoses are probably
infinite,'' internationally renowned expert Dr Graber said.

``The challenge for doctors is keeping up with it, they need to keep connected
and get a second opinion,'' said the doctor who visited Australia earlier this
month to speak at a Royal Australian College of Physicians in Perth.

To minimise diagnostic error, doctors must stop trusting their intuition and
consider the patient in front of them and ask themselves what else could be
causing the symptoms, he said.

Revolutionary technology such as smart phone apps can help with a doctor's
diagnosis.

There is a competition with a $10 million prize to develop a small,
transportable technological device to provide patient readings on 15 different
parameters, he said.

Dr Graber is campaigning for medical errors to be formally reported. He said the
size of the problem can only become known it is recorded.

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BUL


                   Copyright 2013 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              240 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                      February 3, 2012 Friday 6:30 AM EST

Lundbeck: Raise Your Hand to Support People with Rare Diseases

LENGTH: 1358  words


New Delhi, Feb. 3 -- Today, Lundbeck announced its third annual Raise Your Hand
to Fight Rare Diseases campaign in support of Rare Disease Day, a worldwide
observance on February 29 to increase awareness of rare diseases. When an
individual clicks the Raise Your Hand icon posted on the National Organization
for Rare Disorders (NORD) Rare Disease Day website (www.rarediseaseday.us),
Lundbeck will make an unrestricted donation to NORD's general research fund.

"There is limited funding available to support research on the nearly 7,000 rare
diseases affecting nearly 30 million Americans,"1 said Peter L. Saltonstall,
NORD president and CEO. "We are very pleased to partner with Lundbeck for the
third year of the Raise Your Hand campaign. With Lundbeck's donations to our
general research fund over the past two years, we've been able to initiate
studies for Stiff-Person Syndrome and Systemic Sclerosis, two severe and very
rare disorders."

Lundbeck's 2010 donation supported a study by Eric Lancaster, MD, for
Stiff-Person Syndrome (SPS), a rare, acquired neurological disorder2 believed to
affect fewer than one in 1 million people.3 Results are expected to be released
early this year with the hope of decreasing the time to reach a diagnosis of
SPS. Lundbeck's 2011 donation supports a study of systemic sclerosis, a rare
autoimmune disorder affecting an estimated 49,000 people in the U.S.4 This
disease causes damage to the skin, but also involves the tissues beneath, blood
vessels, and major organs such as the intestines, lungs, heart, and kidneys.4
Led by Silvia Laura Bosello, MD, the study is aimed at improving the
identification of abnormal B-cells and administering medications that are known
to positively affect the production of B-cells.

"Lundbeck is proud to contribute funding to help advance this important
research. Our focus on making a difference for patients, no matter how complex
the condition, is what drives us at Lundbeck every day," said Staffan Schuberg,
president of Lundbeck. "Our continued partnership with NORD reflects our overall
efforts to push forward research and innovation that can have a positive impact
on patients, families and caregivers."

Lundbeck is doing all it can to provide support today while driving research and
innovation for patients with challenging neurologic and psychiatric conditions.
In the last three years, Lundbeck has introduced three therapies for rare
central nervous system (CNS) disorders, including ONFI (clobazam), which became
available in January and is approved as add-on treatment of seizures associated
with Lennox-Gastaut Syndrome (LGS) in people 2 years of age and older.
Currently, the company has numerous CNS compounds in development, including
several in late-stage clinical trials.

In addition to epilepsy, Lundbeck has invested significant resources toward
Huntington's disease (HD), another rare CNS disorder, through community-based
programs and its HD Research Initiative. This research is driven by
collaborations with academic institutions and companies, with the goal of
identifying and ultimately commercializing therapies that may slow or halt the
progression of HD.

About Rare Diseases

There are approximately 7,000 rare diseases or conditions affecting an estimated
30 million Americans,1 though the number of individuals confronting any one of
these disorders can be quite small. In the United States, rare diseases, also
referred to as "orphan conditions," are generally defined as diseases that
affect fewer than 200,000 Americans.1 Compared to individuals with more common
disorders, those with rare diseases often face greater challenges such as
difficulty in finding medical experts, delay in receiving an accurate diagnosis,
and access to few, if any, treatment options.1

About Rare Disease Day

Rare Disease Day is an annual event observed worldwide on the last day of
February each year. The purpose of the day is to raise awareness of rare
diseases as a public health issue and bring together patients and families with
rare diseases to discuss the need for greater awareness, more research, and
better access to diagnosis and treatment.1 Rare Disease Day was first launched
in 2008 in Europe by the European Rare Disease Organization, EURORDIS, a sister
organization to NORD. In 2009, other countries throughout the world joined
EURODIS to observe the day.5 NORD, which represents the nearly 30 million
Americans affected by rare diseases,1 is the sponsor of Rare Disease Day in the
United States. To learn more about Rare Disease Day 2012, please visit
www.rarediseaseday.us, or visit Facebook and become a fan of Rare Disease Day
US.

About ONFI (clobazam)

ONFI is an oral antiepileptic drug developed in the United States by Lundbeck,
and is available at retail pharmacies in 5 mg, 10 mg, and 20 mg tablets. ONFI
(pronounced "ON-fe") is a federally controlled schedule four substance (C-IV).
ONFI is a 1,5 benzodiazepine. The exact mechanism of action for ONFI is not
fully understood, but is thought to involve potentiation of GABAergic
neurotransmission resulting from binding at the benzodiazepine site of the GABAA
receptor.6

For more information, please visit www.onfi.com.

Important Safety Information6

* ONFI can make you sleepy or dizzy and can slow your thinking and make you
clumsy which may get better over time. Do not drive, operate heavy machinery, or
other dangerous activities until you know how ONFI affects you. Do not drink
alcohol or take other drugs that may make you sleepy or dizzy while taking ONFI
without first talking to your healthcare provider as your sleepiness or
dizziness may get much worse.

* ONFI can cause withdrawal symptoms. Do not suddenly stop taking ONFI without
first talking to a healthcare provider. Stopping ONFI suddenly can cause
seizures that will not stop (status epilepticus), hearing or seeing things that
are not there (hallucinations), shaking, nervousness, and stomach and muscle
cramps.

* ONFI can be abused and cause dependence. Physical dependence is not the same
as drug addiction. Talk to your healthcare provider about the differences. ONFI
is a federally controlled substance (C-IV) because it can be abused or lead to
dependence.

* Like other antiepileptic drugs, ONFI may cause suicidal thoughts or actions in
a very small number of people, about 1 in 500. Call your healthcare provider
right away if you have any symptoms, especially sudden changes in mood,
behaviors, thoughts, or feelings, and especially if they are new, worse, or
worry you.

* Tell your healthcare provider about all of your medical conditions including
liver or kidney problems, lung problems (respiratory disease), depression, mood
problems, or suicidal thoughts or behavior.

* If you are pregnant or plan to become pregnant, ONFI may harm your unborn
baby. You and your healthcare provider will have to decide if you should take
ONFI while you are pregnant.

* ONFI can pass into breast milk. You and your healthcare provider should decide
if you should take ONFI or breast feed. You should not do both.

* Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take including
prescription and nonprescription medicines, vitamins and herbal supplements as
taking ONFI with certain other medicines can cause side effects or affect how
well they work. ONFI may make your birth control medicine less effective. Talk
to your healthcare provider about the best method to use.

* The most common side effects seen in ONFI patients include: sleepiness;
drooling; constipation; cough; pain with urination; fever; acting aggressive,
being angry or violent; difficulty sleeping; slurred speech; tiredness; and
problems with breathing.

About Lundbeck in the U.S.

Lundbeck in the U.S., headquartered in Deerfield, Illinois, is a wholly-owned
subsidiary of H. Lundbeck A/S in Denmark. Lundbeck is dedicated to providing
innovative specialty therapies that fulfill unmet medical needs of people with
central nervous system (CNS) disorders, including rare diseases. Lundbeck is a
member of the National Organization for Rare Disorders Corporate Council.7

For more information, visit www.lundbeckus.com or follow us on Twitter at
@LundbeckInc.

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2012 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              241 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                          Caboolture News (Queensland)

                                 July 10, 2013

Angel on dad's shoulder

SECTION: Pg. 3

LENGTH: 420  words


TROY Crane has always thought of his two little boys as angels but his youngest,
10-year-old Mason, is his Angelman.

Mason has been diagnosed with a rare disease known as Angelman Syndrome (AS), a
disease that is not well known within the local community, but that is something
that Troy is determined to change.

On August 3 Troy will be the under card in a headline fight at the Fortitude
Boxing Gymnasium against three different weight classed boxers in six
heart-pumping rounds, and is hoping to raise at least $5000 for the Foundation
for Angelman Syndrome Therapeutics (FAST) and help raise awareness of the rare
disease.

"This disease receives no form of government funding to help find a cure so we
are basically on our own here," Troy said.

"Fortitude Boxing gave me the opportunity to have this fight night and talk
about the disease and use the night as a way to raise funds for the foundation.

"This is the third time I will be taking to the ring for this cause.

"My boy's case is about one in 30 million.

"I just want to make enough noise that we can walk down the street and ask
someone "~do you know what Angelman Syndrome is', like you would do with autism
or Down syndrome, and their answer would be yes."

AS is a severe neurological disorder characterised by profound developmental
delays, problems with motor co-ordination (ataxia) and balance, and epilepsy.

"There is nothing out there for parents who have children with Angelman, there
is no handbook," Troy said.

"So my goal is $5000 on the fight night to go toward FAST but I am hoping to get
outside that... I have been told that to find a cure they only need $15-20
million and it could be cured in 10 years if they got the funding now.

"There will also be some other fights on the night with some great boxers so it
will be a good night of great fights.

"I am fighting against a notorious fighter so it's going to be very tough for me
but it's all about raising funds and awareness."

The fight night will be held at the Fortitude Boxing Gymnasium at 12-14 Kyabra
St, Newstead with doors opening at 6.30pm.

For more information about Angelman Syndrome, go to www.cureangelman. org or to
donate to Troy's cause, visit https://give. everydayhero.com/au/troy.

ANGELMAN SYNDROME

 Angelman Syndrome is caused by a severe reduction of expression of the gene
UBE3A in the brain.

UBE3A is a ubiquitin ligase whose function and targets relevant to AS are still
unknown.

Angelman Syndrome affects only one in 15,000 people

These figures were taken from the FAST website.

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SCA


                    Copyright 2013 APN Newspapers Pty. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              242 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                         The Straits Times (Singapore)

                             March 17, 2013 Sunday

Special love for special needs;
Parents of kids with rare diseases learn to soldier on despite the financial and
emotional stress

BYLINE: Eve Yap

SECTION: LIFESTYLE

LENGTH: 1093 words


The joys of parenthood are complicated by bewilderment when parents learn of
disorders they never knew existed - Antley- Bixler syndrome, Pyruvate
dehydrogenase complex deficiency, Cornelia de Lange syndrome and spinal muscular
atrophy.

The toll these illnesses exact on parents is a physical, emotional and financial
one.

Little Kang En Ning has Antley-Bixler syndrome, a rare genetic disorder. She is
just a year old but she has already undergone five operations, says her father,
IT officer Kang Ching Hsiong, 39.

He is married to housewife Lee Seu Hong, 36. En Ning is their only child.

At three weeks old, the child had a tracheotomy to help her breathe; at two
months, she needed surgery to close a 5mm hole in her heart; a cyst near her
right ovary was excised at six months; and at nine months, reconstruction of her
left club and rectum, which was not properly formed, took place.

In between those operations, she developed bronchitis, then pnuemonia, spending
weeks at the KK Women's and Children's Hospital.

Apart from organ complications, babies with Antley-Bixler syndrome have a flat
forehead and bulging eyes, and abnormally long and knobbly or spider fingers.

There are about 6,000 to 8,000 rare diseases worldwide. The number here is not
known as the Ministry of Health does not keep track of it.

The cost of En Ning's operations alone amounts to $70,000, with subsidies.

The Kangs, who live in a four-room HDB flat in Yishun, have a debt of about
$30,000 "and mounting". En Ning is awaiting the right time for an operation to
correct her prematurely fused skull bones, says Mr Kang.

As rare disorders are often life- threatening, patients need a host of
treatments, operations and therapies. So their families rack up hefty medical
bills.

Mr Kenneth Mah, 42, vice-president of the Rare Disorders Society (Singapore),
says living expenses alone for a child with a rare disease averages $2,500 a
month for essentials including special milk, tubing and medication.

Besides being in financial straits, families struggle emotionally too - in the
face of misunderstanding from strangers and insensitive relatives.

Freelance IT consultant Alex Tan, who is in his 40s, was once investigated by
the police for suspected physical abuse of his daughter. Grace, four, has
Pyruvate dehydrogenase complex deficiency, which means she lacks muscle tone,
among other things.

One day, at 10 months old, the little girl's right arm must have flopped out
between the slats of the cot.

"I think someone could have walked against her arm and dislocated it at the
elbow," says Mr Tan.

"She must have been in pain for two or three days but we didn't know that
because she was crying most of the time," he recalls.

During a hospital visit later, doctors discovered the dislocated arm.

"I was investigated by the police for possible abuse from a depressive parent,"
says an indignant Mr Tan.

Explaining Grace's condition, Dr Derrick Chan, head and consultant of neurology
service at KKH, says this is a "rare disorder of the power source of the body's
cells, the mitochondria".

"Patients are unable to use sugar properly. This results in injury to the brain
and other organs that need high energy," he says.

A special diet, called the ketogenic diet, lets children like her use fat as an
alternative fuel source.

Patients also cannot swallow well.

"A normal baby can finish half a bottle of milk in 10 minutes. Grace took an
hour because she choked most of the time," recalls Mr Tan.

Add to the emotional stress, social stigma.

Mr Mah says he knows of an incident where a stranger's blunt words hurt a mother
whose son has Cornelia de Lange syndrome, which shows clearly in facial
deformities.

"A stranger asked her whether her son could walk, eat and speak. She said, 'No'.
The stranger said, 'Never mind, have another baby. The next one will be
normal.'"

The deepest cut can come from those closest to you.

Secretary Ann Lee, 39, recalls a relative saying to her: "Why didn't you check?
Could this not have been detected before the baby was born'"

Her younger son, Yihong, has what doctors call "global developmental delays", a
lower intellect for his age.

He is three years old but has a mental age of a 14-month-old, wears 800-degree
glasses and says only one word: "There".

Parents who choose to soldier on with their special babies say their children
give them the strength to carry on.

Project engineer Frederick Seah, 38, and his wife Rebekah Choong, 36, a finance
analyst, have two daughters, Beth, nine, and Danielle, five.

Danielle has one of the most severe forms of spinal muscular atrophy from a
missing gene.

KKH says it sees three or four cases of such cases a year.

Danielle is on a ventilator round the clock. And because of reflux, "meals can
get into the airways and into the lungs, and her lungs may collapse", says Ms
Choong. This happened when she was eight months old.

"One day, she vomited and food came out through her mouth and nose, and her
lungs collapsed," she recalls, adding that she has been tube-fed via her abdomen
since.

Muscle weakness means she cannot smile but her eyes light up when she watches
Sesame Street and Disney Channel cartoons in the family's five-room flat in
Simei.

In five years, Ms Choong and her husband were asked thrice: "Do you want to
resuscitate her'"

Mr Seah, who quit his job last week to look after her full-time, says they could
not have made it so far without the help of their friends.

They have come to a "juncture" and realised the answer to resuscitation
questions: As long as her child wills it, they will fight alongside her, says Ms
Choong.

When SundayLife! visited them on Tuesday evening at KKH, Danielle was warded for
high pulse rate.

Her hospital stays have become more frequent, says Ms Choong - from once in
about three to six months to monthly since last December.

Mum and helper take turns to stay overnight, sleeping on a chair, she adds.

Statistics online put Danielle's lifespan at one year.

But her four "bonus" years so far are proof that she cannot deprive her child of
hope.

"What if a miracle comes up'" asks Ms Choong.

She adds: "I realise life is not about buying a house or having smart children.
It's about living through challenges and supporting one another, and this
child."

The gift from his frail daughter is strength for himself, says Mr Seah.

"It's not that I feel invincible but we're not fearful when it's time to say
goodbye."

eveyap@sph.com.sg

If you are taking care of a child with special needs and would like to share
your experience, write to suntimes@sph.com.sg

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2013 Singapore Press Holdings Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              243 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            Herald Express (Torquay)

                             March 6, 2014 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Choir sings out to help fight rare disease

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 114 words


A CONCERT by Exeter Police and Community Choir will be held in aid of the
Paignton-based UK rare disease charity Alström Syndrome UK.

The concert will be held at St Paul's Church, Preston, Paignton, today at
7.30pm.

Homemade refreshments will be available and all proceeds will help families
affected by the rare, life-limiting condition. The choir performs a varied
selection including the Military Wives' song 'Wherever You are' and Simon and
Garfunkel's hit 'Bridge Over Troubled Water.' Tickets are available from
Catherine Lewis on 01803 613117 or email Catherine.lewis@alstrom.org.uk For more
information about Alström Syndrome visit the website www.al-strom.org.uk
www.strom.org.uk

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: HET


                         Copyright 2014 Herald Express
                              All Rights Reserved


                              244 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            Herald Express (Torquay)

                             March 6, 2014 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Choir sings out to help fight rare disease

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 114 words


A CONCERT by Exeter Police and Community Choir will be held in aid of the
Paignton-based UK rare disease charity Alström Syndrome UK.

The concert will be held at St Paul's Church, Preston, Paignton, today at
7.30pm.

Homemade refreshments will be available and all proceeds will help families
affected by the rare, life-limiting condition. The choir performs a varied
selection including the Military Wives' song 'Wherever You are' and Simon and
Garfunkel's hit 'Bridge Over Troubled Water.' Tickets are available from
Catherine Lewis on 01803 613117 or email Catherine.lewis@alstrom.org.uk For more
information about Alström Syndrome visit the website www.al-strom.org.uk
www.strom.org.uk

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: HET


                         Copyright 2014 Herald Express
                              All Rights Reserved


                              245 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                             Torquay Herald Express

                             March 6, 2014 Thursday

Choir sings out to help fight rare disease

SECTION: NEWS:CHARITY; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 111  words


A CONCERT by Exeter Police and Community Choir will be held in aid of the
Paignton-based UK rare disease charity AlstrÃ¶m Syndrome UK.

The concert will be held at St Paul's Church, Preston, Paignton, today at
7.30pm.

Homemade refreshments will be available and all proceeds will help families
affected by the rare, life-limiting condition. The choir performs a varied
selection including the Military Wives' song 'Wherever You are' and Simon and
Garfunkel's hit 'Bridge Over Troubled Water.'

Tickets are available from Catherine Lewis on 01803 613117 or email
Catherine.lewis@alstrom.org.uk

For more information about AlstrÃ¶m Syndrome visit the website
www.alstrom.org.uk

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2014 Localworld
                              All Rights Reserved


                              246 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                       Florida Times-Union (Jacksonville)

                            April 20, 2013 Saturday

Room makeover helps bring transformation in boy, 4

BYLINE: Cindy Holifield & Sandy Strickland

SECTION: good news; Pg. B-1

LENGTH: 630 words


Lucca McLendon, 4, has been sleeping through the night since he got a dream room
makeover that features a Dr. Seuss "Cat in a Hat" theme and a new bed. The
Jacksonville youngster has a rare disease called Phelan-McDermid Syndrome, of
which there are only 600 cases reported worldwide. He's unable to walk and talk
and is 9 to 12 months old mentally, said his mother, Lyndsay McLendon.

Before the makeover, he would wake up multiple times during the night, she said.
The StarLight Project, a nonprofit that partners with the Down Syndrome
Association of Jacksonville, provided the makeover.

Lucca had outgrown his crib, so Zach Strom, a carpenter who runs Spots-4-Tots,
built a twin bed with railings so he can't fall out and hurt himself, said
StarLight co-founder Cherie Sussman. The side of his bed has sensory cubes at a
seated level so he can play on the floor.

The room features a Dr. Seuss house with a doorknob that turns, a doorbell that
chimes and a reflective mirror standing in as a window.

"We also added a sensory board in the corner for more play time with lights and
a mirror," Sussman said. "Included are voice-activated buttons that have Lucca's
mom's voice on it with sayings such as, 'I want to play,' that he can touch to
communicate with his parents. Although he is unable to speak, he is learning to
scoot around on the floor."

McLendon said she and husband Randy were shocked when they saw the
transformation.

"He can't tell us he enjoys it, but we can tell by his actions that he does,"
McLendon said. "It's been a huge blessing."

Here's more good news:

- The Cathedral Basilica in St. Augustine recently received a $100,000 check
toward its $300,000 multiphase renovation project. The donation is from the
Catholic Foundation of the Diocese of St. Augustine. The Cathedral, a National
Historic Landmark, is the oldest parish of a permanent European settlement on
the North American continent north of Mexico, a news release said.

"The needs for historic preservation and maintenance on the Cathedral are many,
and this money will go a long way to fully fund the first phase, which includes
painting the church's exterior," said the Rev. Tom Willis, the church's pastor.

- Bolles' students at its Ponte Vedra Beach Campus recently collected gently
used sports equipment, a dozen bikes and attire for the MaliVai Washington Kids
Foundation, a nonprofit promoting academic achievement and positive life skills
through tennis.

- Caitlin O'Neill may be only 13 but she has some sharp hoop shooting skills.
The St. Joseph Catholic School seventh-grader, representing the Mandarin-St.
Johns Elks Lodge No. 2866, became the state champion in the girls 12-13-year-old
division of the annual basketball free-throw contest known as "Elks Hoop Shoot."
She sank 19 of 25 free throws, beating her nearest competitor by two shots.
Caitlin previously took first at the local, district and North Florida levels.
She ended her run by placing third against four other state champions in the
Southeastern Regional contest in Valdosta, Ga., a news release said. Caitlin,
daughter of Brian and Donna O'Neill, played on her school's basketball and
volleyball teams.

- Northwestern Middle School is looking a lot spiffier. Bank of America and
United Way volunteers recently painted hallway murals and the school's library,
laid mulch, planted shrubs and assembled picnic tables.

- The Northeast Florida Conservatory, a nonprofit community school of the arts,
has received a grand piano from the Hall-Halliburton Foundation.

Have good news? Send items to goodnews@jacksonville.com You can fax them to
(904) 359-4478 or mail them to The Florida Times-Union, P.O. Box 1949,
Jacksonville, FL 32231. cindy.holifield@jacksonville.com, (904) 359-4295;
sandy.strickland@jacksonville.com, (904) 359-4128.

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo
Provided by Cherie Sussman The StarLight Project did a room makeover for Lucca
McLendon, 4, shown with his parents, Lyndsay and Randy McLendon. Provided by
Cherie Sussman Lucca McLendon has been sleeping a lot better since he got a room
makeover that features a Dr. Seuss theme and a new bed. The 4-year-old has a
rare disease. Provided by The Bolles School MaliVai Washington talks to students
at The Bolles School's Ponte Vedra Beach campus after they collected sports
equipment and bikes for his youth foundation.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2013 The Florida Times-Union


                              247 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                       Americus Times Recorder (Georgia)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           September 8, 2009 Tuesday

Local woman gives chance at life to aunt

BYLINE: Becky Holland, Americus Times-Recorder, Ga.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 697 words


Sep. 8--TAZEWELL -- In her home located between Buena Vista and Ellaville,
Stacie Taylor, 36, sits and reflects on her summer. The Southland Academy
graduate and Phoebe-Sumter Medical Center employee is a typical wife and
daughter, but not a typical niece.

In August, Taylor gave to her aunt, Pamela Sims, 61, also of Tazewell, a retired
employee with the Sumter County Youth Detention Center, a very special gift: one
of her kidneys.

"It wasn't a decision I really had to make," said Taylor.

Her aunt became "very ill in December 2007. She had a loss of appetite, a loss
of energy, and a lot of blood in her urine, so we took her to the hospital, and
they found that her creatinine was extremely elevated."

Taylor continued, "And they sent her to St. Francis Hospital, where she stayed
for 31 days, where she had a biopsy and it was discovered that she had a rare
autoimmune diseased called Goodpasture's Syndrome."

According to the National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney
DIsease(http://kidney.niddk.nih.gov), "Goodpasture's syndrome is a rare disease
that can affect the lungs and kidneys. Also called anti-glomerular basement
antibody disease, it is an autoimmune disease condition in which the body's own
defense system reacts against some part of the body itself. When the immune
system is working normally, it creates antibodies to fight off germs. In
Goodpasture's syndrome, the immune system makes antibodies that attack the lungs
and kidneys. Why this happens is not fully understood. Researchers have
identified a number of possible causes, among them the presence of an inherited
component; exposure to certain chemicals, including hydrocarbon solvents and the
weed killer Paraquat; and viral infections."

"We were told that it was a rare disease and that one in a million people had
it, and they were not sure how she got it, but she did," said Taylor. "Her
kidneys were totally wiped out and she lost the function, and the doctors tried
everything they could, and she was put on dialysis for three days a week, for
four and half to five hours at a time, and finally, the doctors said, she just
needed to find a kidney."

Once Taylor heard this, she underwent a number of tests to make sure that "the
tissue samples matched and that I was a blood match, and I was. I think I
underwent every test in the book and under the sun. They wanted to make sure
that the operation wouldn't do any harm to me or cause any problems."

Taylor found that she was over the weight limit and was told to lose "at least
10 pounds and that I had to quit smoking."

She laughed, "So, once I got down below the weight requirement, we called and
scheduled the transplant for Aug. 14."

Taylor said everything went well, and her aunt responded to the new kidney very
quickly. "Her doctor joked that the kidney started working as soon as they put
it in and it started (urinating) all over the place in the operating room and
all over everyone. She was running circles around me. I guess, she had been sick
for so long, that once the kidney was placed, she immediately felt better and
was raring to go."

Taylor on the other hand, "has been doing really good, but I feel really sore. I
have never been sick before, so this has been harder for me to heal from. I told
someone that I felt like I had tried 1,000 sit-ups. My aunt was up and walking
the next morning after the surgery and came in my room to see me."

According to Taylor, Sims has had to take it easy, watch her diet, her
medications and has been taking a "class about transplants, what to look for,
and what to do."

Smiling, Taylor said, "But she is doing really well."

She added, "Organ donation is something that we should all think about and
consider. You never know who's life you might save."

To see more of the Americus Times-Recorder, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go
to http://www.americustimesrecorder.com. Copyright (c) 2009, Americus
Times-Recorder, Ga. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For
reprints, email tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or
847-635-6550, send a fax to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group
Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave., Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20090908-AF-Local-woman-gives-chance-at-life-to-aunt-0908

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: AF


                                 Copyright 2009


                              248 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                               dailyrecord.co.uk

                    September 10, 2015 Thursday 11:28 PM GMT

Fundraiser to be held in Glasgow for young girl who has been diagnosed with Rett
syndrome;
HOLLY WEIR, from Robroyston, was diagnosed with the rare disease and her family
are hosting a charity evening.

BYLINE: By Beverley Lyons

SECTION: NEWS,SCOTTISH NEWS

LENGTH: 261 words


A SCOTS family are holding a charity night to help a young girl who was
diagnosed with the same rare disease that killed Coleen Rooney's sister.

Rosie McLoughlin was just 14 when she passed away from Rett syndrome in 2013.

Holly Weir from Robroyston is eight years old and also suffers from the rare
condition which affects approximately one in every 12,000 females and affects
the development of the brain, hampering her everyday movement and speech.

As a result she has to wear an uncomfortable back and neck brace twenty two
hours a day and suffers from anxiety and mood swings as well as being unable to
use he hands properly.

Now her family are holding a charity evening tonight to help raise £15000 to
build an extension in their house to make her life a bit easier.

Steven Wood, one of the Trustees of the Holly Rose Trust who are hosting the
fundraiser in Arta Glasgow on Friday night explained: "Holly didn't really
interact properly and was quite agitated as a child. When she was two and a half
the nursery noticed there was something fundamentally wrong with her
development. She was eventually diagnosed with the syndrome and her mum had to
give up work to look after her full time."

The family and trust have already managed to raise £8,500 for Holly with support
from local businesses and are keen to raise the rest as soon as possible to
build an extension to their house, saving Holly's family from trying to use the
stairs.

The event tonight begins at 7.30pm with raffles, a live band, and buffet for
£20.

http://www.gofundme.com/b6e7iw

Quick Quiz: News 4/09/15

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDAR


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              249 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                           January 13, 2011 Thursday

All smiles as brave toddler Rosie battles rare disease ; Town hall in tell us
how we can save cash' plea

BYLINE: WFnode

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 263 words


A HAPPY and cheerful' toddler is battling a rare disease which affects her
liver, heart and kidneys.

Two-year-old Rosie Gill suffers from Alagille Syndrome, a genetic disorder that
causes abnormalities in many of her major organs.

As a result the youngster, who lives in Marple Bridge with her mum Clare and dad
Chris, suffers from liver disease, heart problems, and is also unable to absorb
vitamins.

Chris says that although Rosie was born with the condition, it did not come to
light until she first became ill around the time she turned two in July last
year.

He said: She was diagnosed with liver disease at Stepping Hill. She was then
moved to St James' in Leeds where she had an operation and received treatment.

That was when she was diagnosed with Alagille Syndrome. It could affect many
areas of her body, and it does sometimes cause facial characteristics but
luckily Rosie has not been affected by that.

He says that despite operations and ongoing treatment, Rosie takes it all in her
stride, and remains cheerful and upbeat.

She enjoys spending plenty of time with her grandma Alison Gill, who lives in
Bredbury, and the family have received help and support from the Children's
Liver Disease Foundation.

Chris explained: It is possible to control the condition with medication, so it
won't go away but hopefully it won't get worse.

In the worst case she would need a liver transplant, but we are hoping that
won't happen.

It is hard for her, as the medication has side effects such as making her skin
very itchy, but she copes well and is a very happy, cheerful little girl.

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: HELPINGHANDS Rosie with her gran Alison Gill the tot's family say her
condition can be controlled with medication
GOODSPIRITS Rosie Gill is a very happy, cheerful little girl'

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2011 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              250 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                    The Daily Oklahoman (Oklahoma City, OK)

                            August 21, 2012 Tuesday
                                 Drive Edition

State researchers uncover root of rare disease

BYLINE: KEN RAYMOND, Staff Writer

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 301 words


Oklahoma medical researchers have located the genetic mutation that causes
Adams-Oliver Syndrome, a disease so rare that only 100 cases ever have been
reported.

The disease can cause scarring on the scalp; hand and foot defects; diminished
height; and mental deficiencies, according to a news release from the Oklahoma
Medical Research Foundation.

The discovery was made by scientists at the foundation and at the University of
Oklahoma Health Sciences Center. Their work was published in The American
Journal of Human Genetics.

The researchers used a new method of DNA testing called "exome sequencing," the
release states.

"DNA has many functions, but one of the most important is creating proteins the
body needs," said Dr. Patrick Gaffney, senior author of the paper and a
foundation scientist. "Exome sequencing is a DNA testing process that allows us
to extract the 1 percent of genes that make proteins and study exactly where the
mutations occur."

Drawing on seven samples from two families with the syndrome, Gaffney was able
to isolate the disease's cause: a gene called RBPJ.

Mutations cause the gene to "create protein that doesn't behave normally,
leading to symptoms of the disease," the release states.

The discovery is unlikely to change medical treatment of the disease but could
be used to test for the disorder and for genetic counseling purposes.

"Knowing that it's Adams-Oliver Syndrome, even though there's no specific
treatment, means doctors will know about future symptoms and can plan for them,"
Gaffney said in the release. "If patients know they have the disease, it can
also help them make more informed choices about family planning."

The lead author was OU medical researcher Susan Hassed. Foundation scientists
Graham Wiley and Dr. Shaofeng Wang were involved in the research.


LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Dr. Patrick Gaffney, of the Oklahoma Medical Research Foundation, and
other scientists have identified the cause of an extremely rare disease. PHOTO
BY STEVE SISNEY, THE OKLAHOMAN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2012 The Daily Oklahoman, All Rights Reserved


                              251 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                      The Free Press (Mankato, Minnesota)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                              May 15, 2015 Friday

Family struggles through daughter's rare disease, dad's war flashbacks

BYLINE: Nate Gotlieb, The Free Press, Mankato, Minn.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 640 words


May 15--MANKATO -- Vanessa Ewert celebrated her 21st birthday the afternoon of
April 27 by going to River Hills Mall with her family.

A few hours later, she was hooked to a ventilator at the Mankato hospital,
struggling to fight fluid building up in her lungs. She was transferred to
Gillette Children's Hospital in St. Paul early the next morning, where she has
remained.

The hospitalization was the latest in a series of misfortunes to plague the
Mankato-based Ewert family. Vanessa has been hospitalized five times since
December, struggling each time with secretions that inhibit her ability to
breathe, a condition called aspiration pneumonia.

Her dad, Dan, suffered post-traumatic stress disorder last July and was forced
to quit his job. His kidneys failed this spring.

The family struggled to pay its bills the past few months and set up a
youcaring.com page to raise funds. The page raised more than $4,000 as of
Thursday. They also planned a Bowl-A-Thon fundraiser for June 4 at the Wow!Zone.

"We try to stay strong," said Vanessa's mom, Karla. "We try to stay strong and
try to stay positive and keep going forward."

Vanessa has Rett syndrome, a neurodevelopmental disorder that affects about 1 in
10,000 kids, almost all girls. The disease renders her unable to walk, talk and
care for herself. It compromises her immune system so much that she can't leave
the house from November to April.

"As fast as she can turn around, she can go backwards even faster," said
Victoria Ewert, Vanessa's older sister.

Karla provides full-time care for Vanessa. Dan supported the family until last
year through his job as a semi-truck driver.

In July he began experience flashbacks to his Navy days during the Gulf War. The
flashbacks were so severe, his family said, that he would blackout for an hour
at a time, reliving scenes from his military days.

Dan said he was "on the verge" of suicide and hospitalized for three weeks. He
said he recovered with the support of his faith and family. He attended a
partial hospitalization program in October.

In March, Dan was diagnosed with kidney failure. He underwent weeks of dialysis,
returning home on St. Patrick's Day.

Vanessa fell ill an hour after he returned home. She recovered enough to be sent
home before the latest episode last month, which her family said was the most
severe yet.

Early regression

Vanessa appeared to be a normal baby, Karla said. Her family noticed something
was wrong within the first year, however. Vanessa lost the skills she gained,
such as crawling and the ability to pick up objects.

She was diagnosed with Rett syndrome when she was 8, thanks in part to her home
specialist and school para, Vicki Ball. Ball read about Rett syndrome in a
magazine and insisted the doctor test Vanessa for it.

The Ewerts said they did their best to provide Vanessa a normal childhood. She
attended public school and is scheduled to graduate from Mankato East this
month.

"Her laugh and smile are contagious," said Victoria, 25. "Having her as a sister
has taught us to value our relationships a little deeper."

Vanessa's brother, Isaiah, said she is inspiring as a sister, noting how she is
able to overcome her illnesses.

"She's always pulled through," said Isaiah, 14. "It kind of motivates you to
keep moving forward."

The family's fortunes appear to somewhat be turning. Dan will start training
next month for a job with the Wal-Mart Distribution Center. Karla said she is
hopeful Vanessa will return home for her graduation ceremony.

"My life is different than a lot of people out there, but I love my daughter and
I will do this for God," she said. "We will do this together. That's God's
calling."

Folllow Nate Gotlieb on Twitter @NateGotlieb

___ (c)2015 The Free Press (Mankato, Minn.) Visit The Free Press (Mankato,
Minn.) at www.mankatofreepress.com Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20150515-FP-Family-struggles-through-daughter-s-rare-disease
-dad-s-war-flashbacks-0515-20150515

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: FP


                         Copyright 2015 The Free Press


                              252 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                        May 24, 2016 Tuesday 6:30 AM EST

Abeona Therapeutics Announces FDA Allowance of Investigational New Drug (IND)
for Phase 1/2 Clinical Study with ABO-101 Gene Therapy for Patients With
Sanfilippo Syndrome Type B (MPS IIIB)

LENGTH: 1181  words


May 24 -- Abeona Therapeutics Inc. (NASDAQ: ABEO), a clinical-stage
biopharmaceutical company focused on delivering gene therapy and plasma-based
products for severe and life-threatening rare diseases, today announced the FDA
has allowed an Investigational New Drug (IND) Application for its Phase 1/2
Clinical Study with gene therapy candidate ABO-101 (AAV-NAGLU) for patients with
Sanfilippo syndrome type B (MPS IIIB) to be conducted at Nationwide Children's
Hospital (Columbus, OH). This is the second FDA allowance for a gene therapy
trial from Abeona this year, following allowance of an IND in February for
ABO-102, for patients with MPS IIIA which commenced with dosing of the first
cohort of patients this month.

"We're very excited to bring decades of research into clinical trials for this
unmet clinical need," noted Kevin M. Flanigan, M.D., principal investigator with
the Center for Gene Therapy at Nationwide Children's and Professor of Pediatrics
and Neurology at The Ohio State University College of Medicine. "As seen in
other gene therapy trials, using AAV9 delivered by intravenous injection has
strong potential to treat patients with Sanfilippo type B, a disease with
profound central nervous system manifestations."

"Abeona is committed to building a leadership position in the development of
innovative treatments for orphan diseases, and this second FDA IND allowance
represents an important milestone in advancing our rare disease product pipeline
to the clinic," stated Steven H. Rouhandeh, Executive Chairman of Abeona. "We
remain active from a corporate development perspective in identifying
complementary orphan drug programs as well as potential co-development partners,
towards our goal of achieving value for our patients, their families, our
academic partners and other stakeholders."

A Natural History Study for Sanfilippo, conducted by Nationwide Children's
Hospital, has been completed in 25 patients to characterize how the rare disease
progresses in its natural state. Information about a rare disease's natural
history aids in clinical trial design, identifying study end points and
developing and validating clinical outcome measures, and biomarkers.

"ABO-101 is Abeona's second AAV-based gene therapy program to advance to
clinical trials. This first-in-man Phase 1/2 clinical trial is delivered by a
single intravenous injection to treat the brain and peripheral manifestations of
Sanfilippo. In pre-clinical models, an injection of ABO-101 restored the NAGLU
enzyme activity in the cerebral spinal fluid and serum, and also corrected the
lysosomal storage pathology throughout the CNS and in widespread somatic
organs," noted Timothy J. Miller, Ph.D., President & CEO. "A single injection
also led to the correction of astrocytosis and neurodegeneration, hallmarks of
secondary damage in the central nervous system in MPS IIIB. Importantly,
intravenous gene delivery improved both cognitive and motor functions, as well
as extended survival in preclinical models. We are very encouraged by the
results seen in other clinical trials and look forward to further building on
the positive results seen in previous studies. Given the high level of need for
therapies for Sanfilippo syndromes, we remain committed to advancing both our
AAV-based gene therapy programs, ABO-101 and ABO-102, targeting two types of the
inherited genetic disease, MPS IIIB and MPS IIIA."

"The collective efforts of multiple foundations have led us to this great
achievement, and we are grateful for the groundbreaking research of Drs. McCarty
and Fu. We thank Nationwide and Abeona for helping advance potential MPS IIIB
gene therapies for our kids," said Susan Wilson, Director of The Children's
Medical Research Foundation.

"This milestone is the culmination of more than a decade of research," said
Haiyan Fu, Ph.D., the developer of the gene therapy with Doug McCarty, Ph.D.
both principal investigators at Nationwide Children's. "It was achieved through
the support of a translational research grant from the National Institutes of
Neurologic Disease and Stroke. In addition to the NINDS, our entire team would
like to thank many patient and family foundations for their longstanding support
and financial commitment to advancing research and developing treatments for
this heartbreaking disease."

About Sanfilippo syndromes: Sanfilippo syndromes (or mucopolysaccharidosis (MPS)
type III) are a group of four inherited genetic diseases each caused by a single
gene defect, described as type A, B, C or D, which cause enzyme deficiencies
that result in the abnormal accumulation of glycosaminoglycans (sugars) in body
tissues. MPS III is a lysosomal storage disease, a group of rare inborn errors
of metabolism resulting from deficiency in normal lysosomal function. The
incidence of MPS III (all four types combined) is estimated to be 1 in 70,000
births. Mucopolysaccharides are long chains of sugar molecule used in the
building of connective tissues in the body. There is a continuous process in the
body of replacing used materials and breaking them down for disposal. Children
with MPS III are missing an enzyme which is essential in breaking down the used
mucopolysaccharides called heparan sulfate. The partially broken down
mucopolysaccharides remain stored in cells in the body causing progressive
damage. Babies may show little sign of the disease, but as more and more cells
become damaged, symptoms start to appear. In MPS III, the predominant symptoms
occur due to accumulation within the central nervous system (CNS), including the
brain and spinal cord, resulting in cognitive decline, motor dysfunction, and
eventual death. Importantly, there is no cure for MPS III and treatments are
largely supportive care.

About ABO-101 (AAV-NAGLU): ABO-101 is next generation adeno-associated viral
(AAV)-based gene therapy for MPS III (Sanfilippo syndrome), which involves a
one-time delivery of a normal copy of the defective gene to cells of the central
nervous system with the aim of reversing the effects of the genetic errors that
cause the disease. After a single dose in Sanfilippo preclinical models, ABO-101
induced cells in the CNS and peripheral organs to produce the missing enzymes
and help repair damage caused to the cells. Preclinical in-vivo efficacy studies
in Sanfilippo syndrome have demonstrated functional benefits that remain for
months after treatment. A single dose of ABO-101 significantly restored normal
cell and organ function, corrected cognitive defects that remained months after
drug administration, increased neuromuscular control and increased the lifespan
of animals with MPS III over 100% one year after treatment compared to untreated
control animals. These results are consistent with studies from several
laboratories suggesting AAV treatment could potentially benefit patients with
for Sanfilippo syndrome Type A and B, respectively. In addition, safety studies
conducted in animal models of Sanfilippo syndromes have demonstrated that
delivery of AB0-101 are well tolerated with minimal side effects.

Source: Abeona Therapeutics

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2016 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              253 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          Inside Bay Area (California)

                            December 28, 2007 Friday

Thousands of dollars pour in to fight girl's rare disease

BYLINE: By Shaun Bishop, MEDIANEWS STAFF

SECTION: SAN MATEO

LENGTH: 398 words


SOUTH SAN FRANCISCO -- A couple's efforts to raise money for research into their
daughter's rare genetic disease yielded more than $125,000 this year, the family
reported.

The money will go toward finding a cure for Morquio syndrome, a debilitating
condition that afflicts 2-year-old Ariana Kallas.

Her parents, George and Bertha Kallas, have organized nine fundraising events
since February in a grassroots effort to fund research for a disease that occurs
in about 1 in 200,000 births.

The biggest sum came from "A Night of Magic and Miracles," a gala event at the
family's church in San Francisco that raised $65,000.

"It was amazing," said George Kallas, who owns a Belmont bar.

All of the money was sent to Dr. Shunji Tomatsu, a researcher at the University
of St. Louis and one of the few in the country dedicated to studying Morquio.

Morquio syndrome is a disorder in which the body does not produce the proper
enzyme to break down long chains of glucose. Those substances build up in the
body, damaging organs and stunting bone growth. Children with Morquio syndrome
stop growing by age 8, and most are confined to wheelchairs by their teen years.
Morquio patients often don't live past their 30s.

Fundraising for such a rare disease has proven difficult, but the Kallases
aren't alone: Tomatsu's research is also supported by at least 11 other Morquio
organizations.

Tomatsu has been conducting enzyme-replacement therapy on mice in hopes that he
can raise enough money to sponsor clinical trials for drugs that would help stop
the build-up of glucose.

Ariana has suffered some of the disease's early symptoms. In early October, she
underwent a 101/2-hour surgery to attach a metal "halo" brace because her
vertebrae had compressed and threatened to crush her spinal cord.

Throughout the ordeal, Ariana has kept her spirits high, her father said.

When she is watching TV, she will hold on to the metal bars extending from the
halo to her chest and say, "Look at my swing," George Kallas said.

"She doesn't even complain that she has it on. She calls it her hat," he said.

The family has a doctor's visit scheduled in January to gauge when Ariana might
have the brace removed.

"To see her happy, being herself, laughing, joking -- that just makes us feel
good about it," George Kallas said.

For more information, visit http://www.arianascure.com .

E-mail Shaun Bishop at sbishop@dailynewsgroup.com .

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2007 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                              254 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                        The Atlanta Journal-Constitution

                            October 29, 2013 Tuesday
                                  Main Edition

Teen starts 5K to fight rare disease

BYLINE: Devika Rao; For the AJC

SECTION: METRO NEWS; Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 580 words



HIGHLIGHT: Watching relative go through pain moves girl to action.


Kara Winders came out to support the first annual Walk & Roll for GBS/CIDP 5K on
Oct. 12 in Covington. Winders was diagnosed with Guillain-Barre Syndrome in May
2010, and wanted to support the first event in Atlanta that brought awareness
for the rare disease.

"My life, my family's life, has totally changed once I got this diagnosis,"
Winders said. The disease causes rapid muscle exhaustion and weakness making it
hard for Winders and those like her to have enough energy for everyday
activities. "I really wanted to support the cause and hope to spread the word
about GBS."

The 5K was the brainchild of Kimby Wragg, 15, who wanted to raise money and
awareness for the disease that has affected her young step-cousin. "It was
really hard to see her go through all the pain, and so I wanted to do something
to raise money for this disease," she said. Her relative, now 6, was diagnosed
at the age of 4.

Guillain-Barre Syndrome is an auto-immune disease that affects the nerves
outside the brain and spinal cord. The disease damages myelin, the protective
covering of the nerve, which can lead to numbness and even paralysis. Chronic
Inflammatory Demyelinating Polyneuropathy is a rare disorder of the peripheral
nerves characterized by gradually increasing weakness of the legs and, to a
lesser extent, the arms.

"Because these diseases are so rare, many doctors may never see a patient with
GBS or CIDP, so one of the greatest challenges for patients is getting a quick
and accurate diagnosis," said Bob Nelson, deputy director of GBS/CIDP Foundation
International. "If these diseases are correctly diagnosed in a timely manner,
proper treatment can begin, which can literally be life-saving." Fifty percent
of the cases occur shortly after a viral or bacterial infection, some as simple
as the flu or food poisoning.

The race was just one of the many fundraisers that Wragg has put on to raise
money for GBS/CIDP. Last year, she raised over $500 by hosting a car wash, and
the race brought in over $2,000 for the foundation.

"I plan on continuing to host fundraisers and spreading the message of this
disease," she said. "It's really important for me to be able to help others
through the story of my family member."

GBS is rare and occurs in about 1.5 people in every 100,000 people each year.
Nationally, there are about 4,755 cases each year. In Georgia, there are about
149 cases each year.

"Kimby has helped us expand people's awareness of the challenges associated with
these very difficult disorders," said Nelson. "With events like these, people
who are diagnosed with GBS or CIDP find a resource in the foundation. We are
able to provide one-on-one support for newly diagnosed patients, and also find
support within this small community."

In other news: SMITE Challenge for Charity raised $12,000 for Children's
Healthcare of Atlanta. Held Oct. 5 at the Atlanta Marriot, the event was a
24-hour charity live stream of the online game SMITE that culminated in an
eSports competition between the top two North American professional teams: Team
Dignitas and Denial eSports. SMITE is a free-to-play game from Georgia developer
Hi-Rez Studios.

More info

To learn more about GBS/CIDP Foundation International, go to www.gbs-cidp.org

Who's doing good?

Each Tuesday, we write about the prior week's charity events such as fun-runs,
volunteer projects and other community gatherings that benefit a good cause. To
suggest an event for us to cover, contact Devika Rao at doing.goodAJC@gmail.com

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspapers


                Copyright 2013 The Atlanta Journal-Constitution


                              255 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            February 17, 2014 Monday

Washington: FDA approves Vimizim to treat rare congenital enzyme disorder

LENGTH: 427  words

DATELINE: Washington


US Food and Drug Administration, The Government of USA has issued the following
news release:

The U.S. Food and Drug Administration today approved Vimizim (elosulfase alfa),
the first FDA-approved treatment for Mucopolysaccharidosis Type IVA (Morquio A
syndrome). Morquio A syndrome is a rare, autosomal recessive lysosomal storage
disease caused by a deficiency in N-acetylgalactosamine-6-sulfate sulfatase
(GALNS). Vimizim is intended to replace the missing GALNS enzyme involved in an
important metabolic pathway. Absence of this enzyme leads to problems with bone
development, growth and mobility. There are approximately 800 patients with
Morquio A syndrome in the United States.

Vimizim was granted priority review. An FDA priority review provides for an
expedited review of drugs for serious diseases or conditions that may offer
major advances in treatment. Vimizim is also the first drug to receive the Rare
Pediatric Disease Priority Review Voucher - a provision that aims to encourage
development of new drugs and biologics for the prevention and treatment of rare
pediatric diseases.

"This approval and rare pediatric disease priority review voucher underscores
the agency's commitment to making treatments available to patients with rare
diseases," said Andrew E. Mulberg, M.D., deputy director, Division of
Gastroenterology and Inborn Errors Products in the FDA's Center for Drug
Evaluation and Research (CDER). "Prior to today's approval, patients with this
rare disease have had no approved drug treatment options."

The safety and effectiveness of Vimizim were established in a clinical trial
involving 176 participants with Morquio A syndrome, ranging in age from 5 to 57
years. Participants treated with Vimizim showed greater improvement in a
6-minute walk test than participants treated with placebo. On average, patients
treated with Vimizim in the trial walked 22.5 meters farther in 6 minutes
compared to the patients who received placebo.

The most common side effects in patients treated with Vimizim during clinical
trials included fever, vomiting, headache, nausea, abdominal pain, chills and
fatigue. The safety and effectiveness of Vimizim have not been established in
pediatric patients less than 5 years of age. Vimizim is being approved with a
boxed warning to include the risk of anaphylaxis. During clinical trials,
life-threatening anaphylactic reactions occurred in some patients during Vimizim
infusions.

Vimizim is marketed by Novato, Calif.-based BioMarin Pharmaceutical Inc.

For more information please visit: http://www.fda.gov

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              256 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                           Philippines Daily Inquirer

                             April 5, 2014 Saturday

Support group meeting challenges for rare diseases

BYLINE:  Charles E. Buban

LENGTH: 802  words


Pompe disease is so rare that few doctors in the world knew about it. What is
even fewer are the treatment options available considering this genetic disorder
is not at the top of the agenda of many drug research companies.

This was the situation that Juan Magdaraog had to deal when he was about 10
years old and started showing signs of muscle weakness that eventually prevented
him from walking or sitting up.

It took his family five years to know his sickness. After seeing a muscular
dystrophy specialist in San Francisco, United States, that Juan's condition was
accurately identified.

Cynthia Magdaraog, Juan's mother, said "We can't blame the doctors. The many
signs and symptoms are not unique to Pompe disease. These are weakness of hip
muscles that leads to difficulty of moving the legs; weakness of spinal muscles
that leads to excessive curving of the back; impairment of respiratory muscles
that leads to respiratory insufficiency; sleep-disordered breathing; and
eventual need for mechanical ventilation (to move air in and out of the lungs)."

Pompe disease could only be identified after taking a blood test of the creatine
kinase (a protein found mainly in the heart, brain and skeletal muscle) and a
muscle biopsy (in which muscle tissue is examined for excessive glycogen storage
and degeneration).

Another huge hurdle

Despite knowing what ails Juan, the Magdaraog family had to face another huge
hurdle. "Pompe disease generally progresses very rapidly among babies and is
almost always fatal by the age of one, usually from heart and/or breathing
failure whereas a Pompe disease that developed later in life, like what Juan
had, is not as fatal as symptoms could be managed if addressed promptly," said
Cynthia, who is happy to report that Juan is doing well at 36.

Indeed, one would consider Juan fortunate as he has the full support of his
family. In fact, he was able to keep his condition at bay, enabling him to
finish college-he is an Industrial Design graduate from the De La Salle-College
of Saint Benilde-and work.

Juan has been confined in a purposely-built wheelchair and has been breathing
through a Bilevel Positive Airway Pressure machine (that helps him breathe more
easily). He has always been a patient-advocate of the Philippine Society for
Orphan Disorders (www.psod.org.ph), a nonprofit organization that aims to help
individuals in the Philippines who suffer from rare disorders.

Expensive

Cynthia, who is also PSOD's president, said: "Like most rare diseases, Pompe
disease is expensive to manage, considering one needs a team of specialists such
as cardiologist, neurologist and respiratory therapist. In addition to enzyme
replacement therapy, supportive care is critical if patients with Pompe's
disease are to maximize their abilities and quality of life. Juan has proven
this."

This is also why, through PSOD, Cynthia and a number of dedicated doctors and
experts have been relentlessly sourcing the much-needed funds from foreign and
local donors, as well as arrange with drug companies to make available under
compassionate use the special food formulas, medications and enzyme replacement
therapies crucial to sustaining and improving the health condition of patients.

"My son is not the only one afflicted with rare diseases. The Institute of Human
Genetics of the National Institutes of Health of the University of the
Philippines Manila has identified over 300 Filipinos, mostly children, afflicted
with over 40 types of rare disorders. Aside from Pompe disease, other conditions
identified include Apert Syndrome, Galactosemia, Homocystinuria, Lowe Syndrome,
and Muscular Dystrophy."

Message to Filipinos

Recently, Cynthia's group joined the world in celebrating the 7th Rare Disease
Day at the SM Mall of Asia (MOA) globe area in a simple candle-lighting
ceremony. According to the PSOD, the event sent a message to the Filipinos,
especially children afflicted with rare disorders and their families that they
are not alone in the struggle for a better quality of life.

"This was the day (Feb. 28 was International Rare Disease Day) where countries
all over the world conduct a high visibility campaign for rare disease. Here in
the Philippines, we emphasized how important it is for Filipino parents to
identify if their child is inflicted with a rare disease so that their children
can live productive and normal lives," Cynthia said.

But more than support from organizations and pharmaceutical companies, PSOD is
hoping a law would soon be passed here in the country to help patients with rare
diseases. "What we need is perhaps some sort of access to medical treatment and
drugs. I know that our children's cases are rare but we believe we still deserve
some form of assistance from the government," Cynthia said. (Next: Bill hopes to
assist Filipinos with rare diseases)

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 Philippines Daily Inquirer
                              All Rights Reserved


                              257 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          Bradford Telegraph and Argus

                            August 5, 2015 Wednesday

Campaign success for Sam, 6, as drug reinstated for rare Morquio syndrome

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 561 words


THE family of a six-year-old boy has been told that a drugs company will
reinstate the free provision of a drug which was vastly improving his health
when he was on a clinical trial of it.

Sam Brown's parents, Katy and Sam, campaigned for their son to continue to
receive Vimizim, used to treat the ultra-rare Morquio Syndrome.

Now drugs company BioMarin has announced it is to reinstate the free provision
to the 34 patients who were on the clinical trial.

He has also urged the National Institute of Health and Care Excellence (NICE) to
make a positive decision on approving the drug so the turmoil many families have
been through can finally end.

Just 88 people in England have the ultra-rare disease Morquio Syndrome, of whom
34 were on the clinical.

Supply of the Vimizim drug was recently discontinued but will now resume until
NICE publishes its final guidance, on whether or not it will approve the drug
for use in the UK, on October 28.

The MPS Society, the charity supporting those with Morquio Syndrome and their
families, has received numerous reports of clinical deterioration of Morquio
patients since supply was stopped on June 25.

For the last nine months, Leeds North West MP Greg Mulholland has been leading
the cross-party, multi-organisation #FundOurDrugsNOW campaign to fight for
funding for the drugs Vimizim, Translarna (for treating Duchenne Muscular
Dystrophy) and Everolimus (for treating Tuberous Sclerosis Complex). 218 people
across the UK are affected by these ultra-rare conditions and all of whom have
been let down repeatedly by failure of process.

Leeds North West MP Greg Mulholland said: "I am delighted that Sam Brown will be
able to access the Vimizim drug once again, this will come as a huge relief for
his parents Katy and Simon. What we now need a positive decision in October to
end the distressing turmoil many families have been going through. Most of those
with the condition were never on the clinical trial and their conditions will
continue to worsen until NICE makes a decision. BioMarin have done their part,
and I would urge NICE and NHS England to approve a drug that clearly works and
is approved in other countries.

"The UK led the way in the clinical trial and it is wrong that people here are
still awaiting a decision when many other countries are already using the drug.
This has taken far too long and people have been let down. As well as a positive
decision on Vimizim, we also need a better, faster process for approval of drugs
that does allow for the approval of drugs for ultra-rare diseases when they are
shown to be effective and ministers must start taking responsibility and put one
in place."

Mr Mulholland has led two parliamentary debates, supported by MPs of all
parties, on the issue of access to drugs for ultra-rare diseases. Recently he
also tabled a parliamentary motion saying that it is now 14 months since Vimizim
was approved on a European level and is already in use in 20 other countries on
the continent.

During the last parliament, Mr Mulholland raise the matter with the Prime
Minister three times, the Deputy Prime Minister, Secretary of State for Health
and also the Life Sciences Minister George Freeman MP with whom he led three
meetings along with campaigners. Mr Mulholland has also led many rallies and
protests outside Downing Street, the Houses of Parliament and Department of
Health.

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              258 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                        Daily Camera (Boulder, Colorado)

                             April 26, 2009 Sunday
                                 First Edition

May is Guillain-Barre Awareness Month

BYLINE: Submitted by Ann Brandt Thursday, April 9, 2009

SECTION: BROOMFIELD

LENGTH: 352 words


Guillain-Barre syndrome is a disorder in which the body's immune system attacks
part of the peripheral nervous system. The first symptoms include varying
degrees of weakness or tingling sensations in the legs and, in some cases,
severe pain. Often, weakness and abnormal sensations spread to the arms and
upper body. These symptoms increase in intensity until the muscles cannot be
used at all, and the patient is almost totally paralyzed. In these cases, the
disorder is life-threatening and is considered a medical emergency.

GBS usually occurs a few days or weeks after the patient has had symptoms of a
respiratory or gastrointestinal viral infection. Occasionally, surgery or
vaccinations will trigger the syndrome. The disorder can develop over the course
of hours or days, or it can take up to three to four weeks. No one yet knows why
Guillain-Barré strikes some people and not others or what sets this rare disease
in motion.

The evil twin of GBS is Chronic Inflammatory Demyelinating Polyneuropathy, or
CIDP, where the nerves are continually demyelinating. Many patients require
regular infusions of Gamma Globulin to keep from becoming paralyzed again.
Disability and financial strain disrupts lives of patients and families.

To increase awareness of this rare disease, May has been declared GBS Awareness
Month. Patients, families, medical professionals and all interested people are
invited to a Colorado meeting at 1 p.m. May 2 at St. Anthony Central Hospital,
4231 W. 16th Ave. The speaker will be Dr. Mik Stambuck of Denver's Neurological
Consultants. Educational materials from the GBS-CIDP Foundation International
will be available and refreshments will be served. The meeting is free.

Several Broomfield residents are GBS survivors and members of the Denver area
support group that meets four times a year at St. Anthony Central Hospital to
exchange information, hear professionals speak, and share experiences. A
newsletter is distributed electronically several times a year. For information
on the group, e-mail me at anngeob@msn.com

Ann Brandt is Denver area GBS-CIDP liaison and a GBS survivor.

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2009 Daily Camera and Boulder Publishing, LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              259 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                              birminghammail.co.uk

                    September 13, 2014 Saturday 2:39 PM GMT

The Birmingham schoolgirl who gulped down BOTTLES of tomato sauce, BLOCKS of
butter and spoonfuls of SALT due to eating disorder;
Aneeba, now 23, from Erdington, suffers from a rare disease called
Laurence-Moon-Bardet-Biedl Syndrome (LMBBS)

BYLINE: By Anuji Varma

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 867 words


Schoolgirl Aneeba Ahmed hid in the kitchen as she gulped down an entire bottle
of TOMATO SAUCE.

But it still wasn't enough for the youngster.

Spotting a BLOCK OF BUTTER in the fridge, she ate the lot as well.

Afterwards, she grabbed a spoon and started shovelling SALT into her mouth.

It was the only thing that would keep the hunger pangs at bay.

Because Aneeba, now 23, from Erdington, suffers from a rare disease called
Laurence-Moon-Bardet-Biedl Syndrome (LMBBS).

And despite the healthy diet fed to her by her parents, she was never satisfied,
ballooning up to 16 stone when she was aged just 10.

In the end, her mum and dad were forced to put locks on the fridge and food
cupboards.

But that still didn't stop her.

"I always found a way to get in," admits Aneeba, who is now a healthy weight
after she learned to control her eating. "I worked out how to unlock them so I
could eat what I wanted.

"To me, all that stuff tasted normal. It was the only way that I didn't feel
hungry.

"I would also eat a lot of junk food, like ice cream, and biscuits. It would be
between meals when no-one was around.

"But when I hit 17 I realised I needed to control it. I stopped eating all the
wrong stuff and started exercising to lose the extra weight."

Now Aneeba, who is studying business and enterprise at Wilson Stuart School, is
a healthy size 12 and doesn't crave the junk food she once enjoyed.

Others are not so lucky and are still battling the strange syndrome.

Aneeba's parents first realised something was wrong when she was born with extra
fingers and toes.

The student was diagnosed from an early age with LMBBS - an inherited genetic
condition that affects approximately one in 100,000 babies.

Other symptoms include hearing loss, kidney abnormalities, sight loss and
obesity.

Dad Zahir and Aneeba laugh now about her younger eating habits - but the illness
brought them great sadness, too.

For up until the age of 13, there was a risk that Aneeba had another closely
related disease which sees patients deteriorate rapidly around the age of 11.

Aneeba Ahmed

"We never thought she would make it to her 13th birthday," recalls taxi driver
Zahir, 57.

"They were the worst two years of my life. Every day we were waiting for Aneeba
to become ill. Every cough would make us think 'This is it.'

"You cannot imagine how awful it is to live, thinking every day that the person
you love is going to die."

But by 13, the signs were so promising that Zahir and mum Perawana, 48, finally
began to relax. Every test came back positive and today Aneeba is a bright,
happy student with a promising future ahead of her. She hopes to work in IT, and
loves playing and joking with her friends and three sisters.

Although her eyesight has deteriorated, it is stable and she is able to
partially see.

Despite that, Aneeba is under constant monitoring and has regular checks-up with
a range of medical experts ranging from renal doctors to ophthalmologists to
dieticians.

She is one of thousands of patients with rare diseases treated at the Queen
Elizabeth Hospital Birmingham every year.

For many of the patients, their conditions are so complex that they need to see
a number of different specialists at different dates and at different sites
round the UK. This can be disruptive for their families and cause financial
problems.

Zahir says: "I have lost so many days of work because of taking Aneeba to
appointments. It was a worry for us as a family."

The Queen Elizabeth Hospital Birmingham Charity is raising £1 million to create
a Rare Diseases Centre at the hospital.

The idea is that as well as creating a place that will allow experts to share
their knowledge more easily, patients will benefit by being able to have all
their appointments on the same day rather than spread out through the year. By
holding one-day clinics, the centre will also enable families to meet others
with the same condition and share experiences and knowledge.

The centre will also be a place to pool resources and conduct trials - all with
the hope of eventually finding cures.

"My friends and I think it's a great idea," says Aneeba. "I have missed so many
days of college by going to different appointments.

"It will be good to be able to talk to other people who have it, and know that
you are not alone."

Zahir adds: "We just hope it will prevent other families going through the pain
and worry we had."

Sarah Borrows, Clinical Nurse Specialist Renal Genetics, who cares for patients
with LMBSS at QEHB says: "Due to the complex nature of many rare diseases
patients need to attend multiple clinics for the different aspects of the
condition.

"It has been reported that this often leads to a general lack of awareness, and
lack of experience, amongst healthcare professionals when caring for patient
with rare diseases.

"This, in turn can lead to inequitable access to co-ordinated quality care,
resulting in patients feeling isolated and frustrated with the healthcare
system.

"The national LMBBS clinic at QEHB has been designed to provide a 'one-stop'
clinic ensuring patients with diagnosed or suspected LMBBS receive expert
attention and co-ordinated management. The Rare Disease Centre will be able to
offer this clinic model to a wide range of rare diseases."

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBEM


                         Copyright 2014 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved


                              260 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            Herald Express (Torquay)

                           February 23, 2012 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Raising awareness of one of rarest diseases in world

BYLINE: COLLEEN SMITH

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 473 words


ALSTRÖM Syndrome UK, a small national charity based in Paignton, is being
showcased to GPs throughout the UK.

Alström is one of the rarest diseases in the world - and the charity has long
been fighting for greater awareness to improve diagnosis, particularly early
diagnosis, among GPs.

Dr Mike Hales, programme manager for Alström Syndrome UK, is currently managing
a £350,000 research programme which involves Torbay Hospital, Birmingham
Children's Hospital and the University of Cambridge - an in-depth study that is
bringing new hope to those suffering with this debilitating disease.

His case study of Alström Syndrome is being published in the Royal College of
General Practitioners' February newsletter. The founder and chief executive of
the charity is Paignton mum Kay Parkinson, who tragically lost both her children
to the disease. Ever since, she has been fighting, and winning, a battle to make
sure that newly diagnosed patients have better chances of survival than her son
Matthew and daughter Charlotte.

By the time doctors diagnosed their many symptoms as Alström Syndrome it was too
late and both died in their 20s.

Kay said:"We have been building our links with GPs for some time and promoting
our medical handbook, but 'This opportunity to reach GPs through their own
newsletter is fantastic in terms of spreading awareness'

"Not surprisingly, with Alström being so rare, many GPs have been completely
unaware of it - as a result, we know of people who have gone undiagnosed for
years." In his case study article, Dr Hales, from Paignton, explains that
Alström is caused by a rogue gene known as ALMS 1. It is one of a group of rare
diseases classed as ciliopathies. This has led to several joint focus groups
concentrating on support, research and genetic solutions.

In particular, Kay is one of a small European team spearheading a widespread
programme to develop support, information and research aimed at improving
diagnostics, care, knowledge and treatment. It is called the Euro-WABB project
as it combines the experience and knowledge of people closely involved in
Wolfram, Alström and Bardet-Biedl (WABB) syndromes. Alström Syndrome can affect
sight, hearing, heart and other major organs and lead to diabetes and obesity.

The charity ASUK was founded by Kay and her husband John after years being
frustrated by lack of knowledge about Alström. The Paignton-based charity was
instrumental in establishing the first NHS multi-disciplinary clinics for AS
patients, in Torbay and Birmingham, and have continued to be at the forefront of
a variety of national and international initiatives concerned with rare
diseases.

For more information, contact Kay Parkinson on 01803 524238 or email kay.par
kinson@alstrom.org.uk

'This opportunity to reach GPs through their own newsletter is fantastic in
terms of spreading awareness'

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: HET


                         Copyright 2012 Herald Express
                              All Rights Reserved


                              261 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                         TendersInfo - Project Notices

                             March 5, 2015 Thursday

HEART-IPS: Congenital heart disease-associated arrhythmia: deciphering Hamamy
syndrome, novel rare disease, using iPS cells

LENGTH: 400  words


EU contribution: EUR 202 405
Objective: In the growing population of patients with congenital heart defects
(CHD), while arrhythmias are not a major issue for children, they are a leading
complication during adulthood. My hypothesis is that the origin of some
life-threatening arrhythmias in adult, lies in cardiac structural and
electrophysiological development.

Thus, studying causes of CHDs may reveal key steps, mis-regulated in adult
patients with CHD, leading to arrhythmias.Cardiac development and adult
electrical function are finely regulated by transcription factors (TFs).
Mutations in TFs have previously been linked to patients with CHD who are
developing arrhythmias in adulthood. Hamamy syndrome is a newly described rare
disease with CHD and rhythm disorders, caused by a mutation in IRX5 TF. In adult
mice, Irx5 is known to regulate cardiac electrical function.I hypothesize that
IRX5 mutation in Hamamy-affected patients, leads to misregulation of heart
development, promoting arrhythmic events during adulthood.I already generated
induced pluripotent stem (iPS) cells from Hamamy patients and a transgenic mouse
expressing the Irx5 mutation.The project will be focused on three aims: 1.
Characterizing the cardiac cellular function altered by IRX5 mutation, using
iPS-derived cardiomyocytes; 2. Identifying cardiac structural and
electrophysiological defects in the transgenic mouse; 3. Understanding the
syndrome s molecular mechanism.This study will provide immediate insight into
understanding fundamental processes by which some arrhythmias in the adult
originate in cardiac development. It may also help unveil the mechanism of
age-related increase of arrhythmias in the general population. Finally, it will
illustrate the ability of human iPS cell technology to model the abnormal
functional phenotype of an inherited cardiac disorder. As such, it represents a
promising model to study disease mechanisms, optimize patient care (personalized
medicine), and aid in the development of new therapies.
Project completion date : 2015-08-31 12:00:00
Major organization : UNIVERSITE DE NANTES

Address : Quai de Tourville 1 NANTES

Country :France
Url : http://www.univ-nantes.fr

Financier : European Union (EU),

Financier address : European Union (EU)
Rue de la Loi 200/Wetstraat 200,
B-1049 Bruxelles/Brussels,
Belgium
Tel: 32-2-2999696, 2993085
Fax: 32-2-2961749
Url: ec.europa.eu/

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: 811


                          Copyright 2015 Tenders Info
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              262 of 997 DOCUMENTS


           Northwest Florida Daily News (Fort Walton Beach, Florida)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            October 15, 2013 Tuesday

Community steps up for teen with rare disease

BYLINE: Lauren Delgado, Northwest Florida Daily News, Fort Walton Beach

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 421 words


Oct. 15--BAKER -- Tyler Meeks finally knows what to call the disease he has
struggled with for 17 years.

In August, doctors diagnosed the Baker School student with Behcet's disease, a
disorder that inflames blood vessels throughout his body. The syndrome causes a
number of seemingly unrelated symptoms, from skin lesions to inflammation of the
joints.

"At first it was a relief to find out what he had, but then I just got scared,"
said his mom, Holley Edson. "I want my son back. I miss him.

"I"ve watched him suffer since the time he was born," Edson said.

Doctors had chalked up his frequent hospital visits to an autoimmune or blood
disorder they believed he'd grow out of. Edson wasn't convinced.

"There was a reason he would have 8, 9, 10 sores in his mouth," she said. "There
was a reason he would be up all night with a fever, crying. I just wanted
someone to listen."

His personality stayed upbeat, hyper and outgoing through it all.

But when puberty stepped up, so did his symptoms. On a recent weekday afternoon,
Tyler slumped on his living room couch. His arm propped up his head as his eyes
glazed over.

While treating another Behcet's patient, one of Tyler's doctors finally
connected the boy's symptoms to the disease.

No cure exists. His eight doctors and specialists can only treat the severe
symptoms.

Tyler's family just wants him to feel like a normal teenager again.

In November, Tyler has an appointment at the Behcet's Syndrome Center in
Manhattan. The center, the only one of its kind in the United States, promises a
new treatment plan or a clinical trial for Tyler.

Edson, an Okaloosa school bus driver, knew her family couldn't afford the trip
on top of $100,000 worth of hospital bills from this year alone. So she reached
out to the Baker community.

An account for the Tyler Meeks Benefit Fund has been set up at the Teachers
Credit Union. An account has also been set up for Tyler at the Crestview
Pharmacy to go toward his medications.

Friends and family filled the Tyler Meeks Benefit Fund Facebook page with
fundraisers, from homemade University of Alabama bracelets to a spaghetti
dinner.

"In this community, everybody is family," Edson said. "He's not just mine, he's
everybody's."

Contact Daily News Staff Writer Lauren Delgado at 850-315-4445 or
ldelgado@nwfdailynews.com Follow her on Twitter @LaurenDnwfdn.

___ (c)2013 the Northwest Florida Daily News (Fort Walton Beach, Fla.) Visit the
Northwest Florida Daily News (Fort Walton Beach, Fla.) at www.nwfdailynews.com
Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20131015-FO-Community-steps-up-for-teen-with-rare-disease-1015-20131015

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: FO


                  Copyright 2013 Northwest Florida Daily News


                              263 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                January 21, 2001, Sunday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

COUPLE HOPE EXPERIMENTAL TREATMENT WILL HELP SONS IN FIGHT AGAINST RARE;
DISEASE

BYLINE: Tim Rowden; Of The Post-DispatchRESEARCH; SCIENCE; MEDICINE; HEREDITY;
GENES; DISEASE ILLNESS; CURE; TREATMENT

SECTION: METRO, Pg. C1

LENGTH: 924 words


* Boys, 8 and 6, who suffer from the genetic disorder Hurler-Scheie syndrome,
will take part in medical trials in New York.

Eric and Vicki Merrell of Herculaneum try not to talk about the future while
their sons Sean and Cody are in the room.

A rare disease shared by the brothers could kill them within a decade. But an
experimental treatment they are about to begin could return their lives to a
semblance of normalcy.

Sean and Cody are getting old enough to pick up on their parents' anxiety.

Their parents want to spare the boys as much psychological trauma as possible
because the physical battle they face is overwhelming. Each day, the boy's
joints grow stiffer, their eyesight weaker. Cody's attention wanders more.

Sean, 8, and Cody, 6, were diagnosed in July with Hurler-Scheie syndrome, one of
a variety of disorders known as MPS-I. Hurler-Scheie syndrome is a rare genetic
disorder that affects about one in every 115,000 births.

The boys' bodies lack an enzyme needed to break down waste materials in the
blood.

What is left behind forms a gel-like substance that attaches itself to joints
and vital organs and causes stiffening of the joints, corneal clouding,
heart-valve failure, enlargement of the liver, blindness and, in the most severe
cases, mental retardation preceding death.

Those affected with the disorder rarely live beyond their mid-20s.

The Merrells' daughter Amber, 3, is a carrier but does not have the disorder.

"We both cried," Eric Merrell said. "It's just something you would never think
would happen to you in your wildest, darkest thoughts."

This week, the boys will start an experimental drug protocol aimed at
controlling the symptoms and halting the progress of the disease.

Genzyme Genetics, a Massachusetts-based company, in conjunction with Bio-Marin
Pharmaceutical Inc. of California, is testing an enzyme-replacement therapy
known as Aldurazyme, which has shown signs of slowing the progress of the
disorder in early clinical trials.

The Merrell family is flying to New York on Sunday to take part in the next
phase of the trial, a six-month double-blind study involving 42 patients in
North America and Europe.

Similar testing programs are under way in North Carolina; Vancouver, British
Columbia; Nice, France; and London and Manchester, England.

"It's a hope," Vicki Merrell said. "I was on the phone for 24 hours straight
trying to get the right person to get in contact with."

The disease has attacked the boys' joints and made it difficult for them to
write their schoolwork at Festus Elementary School or keep up with the other
children on the playground.

They can't raise their arms above their heads. They can't brush their hair at
night or put on their own T-shirts. They have the beginnings of corneal
clouding.

The damage to the connective tissue in Sean's joints has permanently curved his
fingers.

"To sit on our hands and feel sorry for ourselves just seemed silly," Vicki
Merrell said. "We've got to take every opportunity and every chance to see where
this could lead. As a mom, I don't feel like there's another choice."

Dr. Gregory Pastores, assistant professor of neurology at the New York
University School of Medicine, said neither he nor the Merrells will know
whether Sean and Cody will be receiving the drug or a placebo during the trial
period.

"Our greatest hope is that this drug, when compared to a placebo, will be shown
to result in improvement ultimately in the quality of these children's lives,"
Pastores said.

Pastores said a report would be submitted to the FDA later this year. The FDA
will have six months to take action.

Genzyme spokesman Bo Piela said once the testing is completed, Genzyme will
provide Aldurazyme to the boys at no cost, pending approval of the treatment by
Food and Drug Administration.

"After the trial is over, all the patients who want to will be switched over to
the drug," Piela said. "Patients who were getting the drug will be maintained."

The first trial of Aldurazyme in 1998 involved 10 patients. Two of the patients
involved in the initial study have died of complications from the genetic
disorder. The remaining eight continue to show signs of progress, including
weight gain, reduction of liver size and increased flexibility. The results of
the study were published this month in the New England Journal of Medicine.

Spencer Holland of Fort Worth, Texas, was in the first trial when he was 8. He
is now 11 and continues to receive the weekly treatments.

Spencer's mother, Amy Holland, said her son's liver has shrunk by 40 percent
since he began the treatment. Her daughters Madison, 9, and Laynie, 7, are
taking part in the current trial at the University of North Carolina.

Holland said she has no doubt that the treatment is working.

"It's pretty disruptive for our family to do this, but it is our firm conviction
that this is helping our children," Holland said. "We would go to China if we
had to to do this."

Dr. Rick Martin, clinical director of genetics at St. Louis Children's Hospital
and Washington University in St. Louis, said that he has studied the Genzyme
research and that the initial trials look promising.

"It looks promising that this is going to reduce the morbidity of the symptoms
and alleviate the progression of the symptoms, but the response is going to be
different with each kid," Martin said.

"This is a fairly brave thing for this family to be doing. It takes a lot of
guts to sign your kid up to be a guinea pig."

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: Reporter Tim Rowden: E-mail: trowden@post-dispatch.com Phone:
636-931-1017

GRAPHIC: PHOTO COLOR PHOTOS by NANCY PASTOR / POST-DISPATCH:
 (1) Cody Merrell (left), 6, and his brother Sean, 8, work on their range of
motion with physical therapist Sandy Conner recently at St. Louis Children's
Hospital. One of the symptoms of the genetic disorder both boys suffer from is
stiffening of the joints.
 (2) Sean Merrell, 8, checks out Christmas presents delivered to him and his
brother Cody, 6, last month by Julie Watson, 16, secretary of the Angels Amongst
Us group at Herculaneum High School.

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              264 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                                The Toronto Star

                     March 6, 1986, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

Rare disease of brain kills teenage daughter of Michael Warren

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 463 words


   The teenaged daughter of former Canada Post chief Michael Warren has died of
Reye's Syndrome, an incurable and rapidly spreading disease of the brain.

Vicki Warren, who would have turned 16 next week, died Tuesday at the Hospital
for Sick Children, 10 days after she caught the flu.

The rare disease, which mainly attacks young people, usually develops in
conjunction with viral infections. Reye's Syndrome has also been linked to the
use of ASA (acetylsalicylic acid, a common headache medicine) to treat flu and
other infections.

Suzanne Warren told The Star her daughter took ASA to battle the flu she
developed on Sunday, Feb. 23.

She said the family grew concerned when the flu became worse and last Thursday
took her to Wellesley Hospital for tests.

Became disoriented

"At Wellesley, they were investigating the possibility she took too many
(headache tablets) for the flu because she was disoriented," Warren said.

She said the tests revealed a high ASA level, but not too high to be greatly
concerned about.

The following day, doctors began to suspect Reye's and ordered liver function
tests. That night, they transferred Vicki to the Hospital for Sick Children,
where a liver biopsy confirmed the disease. A flap was made in her skull to
decrease pressure on the brain, but the disease spread quickly.

"I had heard the name before, but I didn't know what Reye's Syndrome was,"
Warren said. Four days after doctors pinpointed the disease, it killed her
daughter.

"I've since learned that, once children turn 16, the incidence of Reye's
Syndrome falls off dramatically and, after 18, there are almost no cases at
all," Warren said.

At 15, Vicki Warren was, according to her mother, "very ordinary - but she was a
very bright little girl.

"She had a lot of friends - she was a very average teenager."

Pin money

Vicki had just begun to do modelling, not planning on it as a career, her mother
said, "but just to pick up a little extra pin money."

She was a Grade 10 student at Lawrence Park Collegiate and was a member of the
school's junior choir. Her friends in the choir will sing at her funeral
tomorrow afternoon.

Warren said she had no early cause to worry about her daughter's illness. "It
could just as easily have been the simple stomach flu," she said.

She said it wasn't until Vicki became disoriented that she feared it was more
than the flu. She said doctors told her Reye's Syndrome is hard to diagnose
because its symptoms are similar to many other innocent illnesses.

Most patients who recover from Reye's syndrome have no lasting damage. But a few
who have severe cases or babies who get it may be left mentally impaired.

The Warren family is encouraging donations to the Reye's Syndrome Foundation.

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo Vicki Warren

                  Copyright 1986 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


                              265 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                              Garhwal Post (India)

                              July 7, 2014 Monday

Villager with rare disease receives help from Dr Sanon

LENGTH: 591 words

DATELINE: Mussoorie


ussoorie, July 7 -- Eighteen year old Sunil, a poor villager suffering from keen
Guillain-Barr' syndrome disease, for whom death was looming large due to
scarcity of funds and the neglect of the state Health Department, has finally
received a helping hand here by The Divine Light Trust, a social organisation.Dr
Sunil Sanon had once again raised his hand to support the entire treatment to be
done of Sunil, s/o Sitaram r/o Dabla Village, near Kempty.Sunil Sanon told media
persons that Sunil suffers from the disease, Guillain-Barr' syndrome, which is
an autoimmune condition in which the person's nerves are attacked by the body's
own immune defence system. As a result of the attack, the nerve insulation
(myelin) and sometimes even the inner covered part of the nerve (axon) is
damaged and signals are delayed or otherwise changed. The resultant antibodies
attack the myelin sheath, and sometimes the axon, causing paralysis and muscular
weakness as well as strange sensations, as the sensory nerves of the skin may be
affected. He further said as it is a rare disease and sometime it is not
diagnosed by the doctors.

He said the syndrome appeared to be triggered by acute viral or bacterial
illnesses, such as respiratory or gastrointestinal infections, occurring one to
three weeks earlier. However, other events such as pregnancy, dengue fever,
surgical procedures, insect bites and Bell's palsy have also been shown to cause
GBS. Usually, the symptoms start in the feet or legs and progress up the body
over a few days or weeks. The disorder can be mild, moderate or severe, with
life support needed in the worst cases. The exact cause is unknown and there is
no known cure. Most people spontaneously recover; although some will be left
with permanent disabilities. Other names for Guillain-Barr' syndrome include
acute idiopathic polyneuritis, acute idiopathic polyradiculoneuritis and
Landry's ascending paralysis.He said as Sunil was diagnosed by him, after having
a discussion with his family members, he immediately sent Sunil to
Neuro-physician and specialist Dr Shasen Saxena for further treatment. Medicines
with some special injections were brought from Delhi costing about Rs 1.4 lakh,
which was paid by Divine Light Trust. He further said that for further
treatment, Sunil is being sent to the Himalayan Institute and the cost of
treatment will be more than Rs 1.5 lakh which will be spent by the trust.
However, the challenge is not yet over, as Rs 3 or 4 lakh more were needed for
the complete treatment, and the doctor couple is hopeful that the life of the
patient will be saved. The disease, which in most cases leads to immediate death
due to ignorance, had been diagnosed in time, thus increasing the chances of the
patient's survival. The relatives and parents of Sunil thanked the doctor couple
for their financial support and guidance and said that his mother was on the
verge of dying and as they were not in a position to collect the sum required
for the treatment of their son, they termed the help of Rs 3 lakh as no less
than God sent.Sunil Sanon was also critical of the government machinery towards
the patient needing immediate operative care, and said that the procedure for
receiving funds from the 'Vyadhi Nidhi Kosh' was so cumbersome that by the time
the paper work was completed, the patient would have died.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Garhwal Post. For any query
with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact
Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2014 Garhwal Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              266 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           January 21, 2015 Wednesday

Oregon: Education aids understanding, reduces stigma of facial paralysis, OSU
study shows

LENGTH: 744  words

DATELINE: Salem


Oregon State University, The State of Oregon has issued the following News
release:

A little bit of sensitivity training can help people form better first
impressions of those with facial paralysis, reducing prejudices against people
with a visible but often unrecognizable disability, new research from Oregon
State University indicates.

There is a natural tendency to base first impressions on a person's face, but
those impressions can be inaccurate and often negative when the person has
facial paralysis, said Kathleen Bogart, an assistant professor of psychology in
the College of Liberal Arts at Oregon State University.

"We wanted to see what we could do to change that, and we found that education
is a powerful tool," said Bogart, who directs the Disability and Social
Interaction Lab at OSU. "It takes away the uncertainty of how to accommodate the
disability."

The research showed that providing education about conditions that cause facial
paralysis helps people correct their misperceptions. Education efforts could be
particularly beneficial to health care workers, educators or other groups that
are more likely to regularly encounter someone with facial paralysis, Bogart
said.

For example, understanding the need to pay attention to other modes of
communication could help a doctor develop a better relationship with a patient
and more accurately detect when the patient is upset or in pain. It also could
help educators avoid the assumption that an unresponsive face means the student
is not attentive, and to understand when a child is actually engaged in a task,
she said.

Bogart is an expert on ableism, or prejudice about disabilities, and her
research focuses on the psychosocial implications of facial movement disorders
such as facial paralysis and Parkinson's disease, which affect more than 200,000
Americans. Her interest stems from personal experience; she has Moebius syndrome
, a rare congenital neurological disorder characterized by facial paralysis and
impaired lateral eye movement.

For the study, she conducted an experiment where some participants received
sensitivity training in the form of educational information about facial
paralysis, including the cause and nature of the disability. The information
stressed the need to focus on body language and voice cues of people with facial
paralysis. Other participants received no information on facial paralysis.

All 110 study participants were then asked to watch a series of video clips
featuring people with facial paralysis, both mild and severe, and were asked to
rate the sociability of the people in the videos. The people who read the
educational information consistently rated people with facial paralysis as more
sociable than those in the group that did not read the information.

"We found that awareness and education efforts are effective in reducing stigma
related to rare disabilities such as facial paralysis," Bogart said. "That could
have a broad impact on the rare disease community, because many rare diseases
are unrecognizable. People who encounter someone with a rare disease may not
understand or know how to adapt to communicate with them."

The findings are being published in the February issue of the journal "Patient
Education and Counseling." Co-author is Linda Tickle-Degnen of Tufts University.
The research was supported by a grant from the National Institutes of Health.

Bogart is now developing educational materials about Moebius Syndrome targeted
to educators and health care providers. She and the students in her lab also are
conducting an awareness campaign in conjunction with Moebius Syndrome Awareness
Day, which is held annually on Jan. 24.

The awareness campaign is a pilot project. Bogart and her students are
encouraging people to take a self-portrait with a sign describing how they
express themselves, then sharing the photos on social media sites using the
hashtag #moebiusawareness. The Moebius Syndrome Foundation and several other
college campuses are also participating in the campaign. For more information on
the effort, visit: http://bit.ly/17BMR8o.

In the future, Bogart hopes to study the effectiveness of such educational
efforts to determine if more information should be included, if other types of
groups might be targeted or if there are other ways to enhance understanding of
rare diseases such as facial paralysis.

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              267 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           January 21, 2015 Wednesday

Oregon: Education aids understanding, reduces stigma of facial paralysis, OSU
study shows

LENGTH: 744  words

DATELINE: Salem


Oregon State University, The State of Oregon has issued the following News
release:

A little bit of sensitivity training can help people form better first
impressions of those with facial paralysis, reducing prejudices against people
with a visible but often unrecognizable disability, new research from Oregon
State University indicates.

There is a natural tendency to base first impressions on a person's face, but
those impressions can be inaccurate and often negative when the person has
facial paralysis, said Kathleen Bogart, an assistant professor of psychology in
the College of Liberal Arts at Oregon State University.

"We wanted to see what we could do to change that, and we found that education
is a powerful tool," said Bogart, who directs the Disability and Social
Interaction Lab at OSU. "It takes away the uncertainty of how to accommodate the
disability."

The research showed that providing education about conditions that cause facial
paralysis helps people correct their misperceptions. Education efforts could be
particularly beneficial to health care workers, educators or other groups that
are more likely to regularly encounter someone with facial paralysis, Bogart
said.

For example, understanding the need to pay attention to other modes of
communication could help a doctor develop a better relationship with a patient
and more accurately detect when the patient is upset or in pain. It also could
help educators avoid the assumption that an unresponsive face means the student
is not attentive, and to understand when a child is actually engaged in a task,
she said.

Bogart is an expert on ableism, or prejudice about disabilities, and her
research focuses on the psychosocial implications of facial movement disorders
such as facial paralysis and Parkinson's disease, which affect more than 200,000
Americans. Her interest stems from personal experience; she has Moebius syndrome
, a rare congenital neurological disorder characterized by facial paralysis and
impaired lateral eye movement.

For the study, she conducted an experiment where some participants received
sensitivity training in the form of educational information about facial
paralysis, including the cause and nature of the disability. The information
stressed the need to focus on body language and voice cues of people with facial
paralysis. Other participants received no information on facial paralysis.

All 110 study participants were then asked to watch a series of video clips
featuring people with facial paralysis, both mild and severe, and were asked to
rate the sociability of the people in the videos. The people who read the
educational information consistently rated people with facial paralysis as more
sociable than those in the group that did not read the information.

"We found that awareness and education efforts are effective in reducing stigma
related to rare disabilities such as facial paralysis," Bogart said. "That could
have a broad impact on the rare disease community, because many rare diseases
are unrecognizable. People who encounter someone with a rare disease may not
understand or know how to adapt to communicate with them."

The findings are being published in the February issue of the journal "Patient
Education and Counseling." Co-author is Linda Tickle-Degnen of Tufts University.
The research was supported by a grant from the National Institutes of Health.

Bogart is now developing educational materials about Moebius Syndrome targeted
to educators and health care providers. She and the students in her lab also are
conducting an awareness campaign in conjunction with Moebius Syndrome Awareness
Day, which is held annually on Jan. 24.

The awareness campaign is a pilot project. Bogart and her students are
encouraging people to take a self-portrait with a sign describing how they
express themselves, then sharing the photos on social media sites using the
hashtag #moebiusawareness. The Moebius Syndrome Foundation and several other
college campuses are also participating in the campaign. For more information on
the effort, visit: http://bit.ly/17BMR8o.

In the future, Bogart hopes to study the effectiveness of such educational
efforts to determine if more information should be included, if other types of
groups might be targeted or if there are other ways to enhance understanding of
rare diseases such as facial paralysis.

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              268 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                         The Straits Times (Singapore)

                           December 27, 2008 Saturday

Discoverer of rare disease

SECTION: REVIEW - TECH & SCIENCE

LENGTH: 340 words


TAY'S syndrome, a rare disease characterised by unusually dry skin and brittle
hair, is named after local physician Tay Chong Hai.

The retired general practitioner, 77, made the discovery when he treated two
children with similar symptoms in 1969.

Research in journals and medical encyclopaedias led to nothing. In the end, he
sent his findings and a hair sample to the United States.

After more than a month, during which time his reply was mistakenly sent to
China instead of Singapore by the investigators, he was told he was on to
something new.

'They actually gave me advice on how I could conduct my research to come up with
a conclusive finding,' he said.

Further work, however, called for a polarised light source to study the hair at
high magnifications, unavailable then in Singapore's research facilities.

The resourceful physician bought a pair of sunglasses which forced light to move
at a predetermined angle.

'I put two layers under the microscope lens, laid these strands of hair in
between and they looked just like a tiger's tail,' said Dr Tay.

The striations on the oddly jointed hairs became the key distinguishing
characteristic of Tay's syndrome. It is a genetic problem, preventing a healthy
balance of sulphur in the skin's make-up.

Dr Tay was never one to shy away from a challenge.

'I almost didn't make it into medical school, but I did my best and never gave
up,' he said.

The stage was set for the discovery of Tay's syndrome by several prior
achievements, including discovering the poison arsenic in traditional Chinese
medicine pills for asthma in the 1960s.

'I almost came away looking like a fraud because a medical houseman overheard my
conversation with the authorities saying we would conduct a raid and leaked it
to the shop,' he said.

The dangerous 2mm beads at the shop had been replaced with larger pills, but Dr
Tay was vindicated when other shops were found to be carrying the poison-laced
pills.

He hopes local doctors will eventually gain more recognition for their research,
to spur them to do more such work.

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2008 Singapore Press Holdings Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              269 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                       The Daily Gleaner (New Brunswick)

                             July 29, 2014 Tuesday

Province announces rare disease drug plan

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 860 words


The New Brunswick government has announced a strategy to help people struggling
with the high cost of treatments for a number of rare diseases.

The Health Department said on Monday it has established the New Brunswick Drugs
for Rare Diseases Plan, which will cover expensive medications for people
suffering with uncommon afflictions.

The announcement comes after years of pleas, protests and petitions from people
and their families affected by rare, debilitating illnesses and sky-high
treatment bills.

One of those people, Annette Sebey of Perth-Andover, now will be able to access
the enzyme-replacement treatment she needs to treat late-onset Pompe disease - a
progressive, debilitating and often fatal neuromuscular condition caused by an
enzyme deficiency.

She is one of only 40 people in Canada, and the only person in New Brunswick,
with the disease.

"I will be joyous, once I am sitting in the chair for my first infusion in a New
Brunswick hospital," Sebey said in an interview from a Florida hospital where
she has been receiving treatments in a clinical drug trial.

"This is a big step forward."

Pompe patients in other provinces have been able to access treatment with the
costly drug, Myozyme. But in New Brunswick, the treatment was not on a list of
accepted drugs, and the province did not have a special protocol to deal with
such rare occurrences.

In Monday's announcement, Pompe is included on the list of five drugs for
specific rare diseases that now will be covered by the province.

The total cost of the drug program is estimated to be between $1 million and $4
million per year.

"It's the right thing to do," Health Minister Ted Flemming said in an interview
on Monday.

"I found it personally troubling to hear someone say, 'If I didn't live in New
Brunswick, I would have coverage.' As minister of health, that troubled me, and
it didn't sit right with me.

"We try to have the best health care we can ... this will help people in need."

Liberal health critic Don Arseneault said he has been saying for many months
that the province's prescription drug plan, announced last year, fell short of
being the catastrophic drug program many individuals and groups wanted.

Arseneault said he is suspicious about the Tory government's sudden generosity
less than two months before the Sept. 22 provincial election.

"It's beginning to look like the 2010 campaign, when the Tories promised the
world to everybody," the Liberal critic said in an interview.

"They are now coming out with all these commitments, which were expected years
ago. We agree there should be a rare disease policy, but I find this
announcement surprising. I didn't see it coming because of the answers this
government has given on this issue in the past few years."

Flemming said he still believes there should be a national strategy for rare
disease drug coverage. But, failing that, he said he promised people like Sebey
he would consider a provincial program and move forward if possible.

He said the Health Department is projecting a $25-million surplus for the
current year, so he said the money can be found within the existing budget.

"I can do this for these people without asking for more money," Flemming said.
"It will be achieved within the existing Department of Health budget because we
are getting our fiscal house in order."

New Brunswick will partner with Ontario to deliver the plan using a "drugs for
rare diseases framework." Flemming said the framework gives New Brunswick
up-to-date information on rare disease drugs using the best available evidence
from the much larger province.

The plan will cover the cost of five drugs for specific rare diseases:

Aldurazyme for the treatment of Hurler and Hurler-Scheie forms of
Mucopolysaccharidosis I;

Elaprase for the treatment of Hunter Syndrome;

Ilaris for the treatment of Cryopyrin-Associated Periodic Syndrome;

Myozyme for the treatment of Pompe disease; and

Zavesca for the treatment of Niemann-Pick Type C.

There will be no cost to patients.

Dr. Mark Messenger, a pediatrician in Fredericton, welcomed the announcement.

"It is long overdue," Messenger said in an interview, saying the government
should be applauded for moving ahead with the drug plan.

"It really offers some hope to the few individuals in the province who have
these extremely rare diseases and, up to this point, have not had the same
access to care as other provinces in the country."

He said that in the case of the drug Aldurazyme, used for the treatment of
Hurler and Hurler-Scheie diseases, every other province has paid for the drug
except New Brunswick. The medication can cost as much as $200,000 per year.

"You can appreciate that developing therapies for these diseases costs millions
of dollars and the application is very narrow in terms of the number of people
who can benefit," Messenger said.

Applications are available by calling 1-800-332-3692. The plan will begin
accepting applications on Aug. 1.

According to the Canadian Association for Rare Disorders, nearly three million
Canadians suffer from a rare disease, approximately half of whom are children.

Of more than 7,000 rare diseases, treatments have been developed for only about
300 of them.

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2014 The Daily Gleaner
                              All Rights Reserved


                              270 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                     The Telegraph-Journal (New Brunswick)

                             July 29, 2014 Tuesday

Province announces Rare disease drug plan

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 860 words


FREDERICTON * The New Brunswick government has announced a strategy to help
people struggling with the high cost of treatments for a number of rare
diseases.

The Health Department said Monday it has established the New Brunswick Drugs for
Rare Diseases Plan which will cover expensive medications for people suffering
with uncommon afflictions.

The announcement comes after years of pleas, protests and petitions from people
and their families affected by rare, debilitating illnesses and sky-high
treatment bills.

One of those people, Annette Sebey of Perth-Andover, now will be able to access
the enzyme-replacement treatment she needs to treat late-onset Pompe disease - a
progressive, debilitating and often fatal neuromuscular condition caused by an
enzyme deficiency.

She is one of only 40 people in Canada, and the only person in New Brunswick,
with the disease.

"I will be joyous, once I am sitting in the chair for my first infusion in a New
Brunswick hospital," Sebey said in an interview from a Florida hospital where
she has been receiving treatments in a clinical drug trial.

"This is a big step forward."

Pompe patients in other provinces have been able to access treatment with the
costly drug, Myozyme. But in New Brunswick, the treatment was not on a list of
accepted drugs and the province did not have a special protocol to deal with
such rare occurrences.

In Monday's announcement, Pompe is included on the list of five drugs for
specific rare diseases that now will be covered by the province.

The total cost of the drug program is estimated to be between $1 million and $4
million per year.

"It's the right thing to do," Health Minister Ted Flemming said in an interview
Monday.

"I found it personally troubling to hear someone say, 'If I didn't live in New
Brunswick, I would have coverage.' As minister of health, that troubled me and
it didn't sit right with me. We try to have the best health care we can ... this
will help people in need."

Liberal health critic Don Arseneault said he has been saying for many months
that the province's prescription drug plan, announced last year, fell short of
being the catastrophic drug program many individuals and groups wanted.

Arseneault said he is suspicious about the Tory government's sudden generosity
less than two months before the Sept. 22 provincial election.

"It's beginning to look like the 2010 campaign when the Tories promised the
world to everybody," the Liberal critic said in an interview.

"They are now coming out with all these commitments which were expected years
ago. We agree there should be a rare disease policy, but I find this
announcement surprising. I didn't see it coming because of the answers this
government has given on this issue in the past few years."

Flemming said he still believes there should be a national strategy for rare
disease drug coverage. But, failing that, he said he promised people like Sebey
he would consider a provincial program and move forward if possible.

He said the Health Department is projecting a $25-million surplus for the
current year, so he said the money can be found within the existing budget.

"I can do this for these people without asking for more money," Flemming said.
"It will be achieved within the existing Department of Health budget because we
are getting our fiscal house in order."

New Brunswick will partner with Ontario to deliver the plan using a "drugs for
rare diseases framework." Flemming said the framework gives New Brunswick
up-to-date information on rare disease drugs using the best available evidence
from the much larger province.

The plan will cover the cost of five drugs for specific rare diseases:

Aldurazyme for the treatment of Hurler and Hurler-Scheie forms of
Mucopolysaccharidosis I;

Elaprase for the treatment of Hunter Syndrome;

Ilaris for the treatment of Cryopyrin-Associated Periodic Syndrome;

Myozyme for the treatment of Pompe disease; and

Zavesca for the treatment of Niemann-Pick Type C.

There will be no cost to patients.

Dr. Mark Messenger, a pediatrician in Fredericton, welcomed the announcement.

"It is long overdue," Messenger said in an interview, saying the government
should be applauded for moving ahead with the drug plan.

"It really offers some hope to the few individuals in the province who have
these extremely rare diseases and, up to this point, have not had the same
access to care as other provinces in the country."

He said that in the case of the drug Aldurazyme, used for the treatment of
Hurler and Hurler-Scheie diseases, every other province has paid for the drug
except New Brunswick.

The medication can cost as much as $200,000 per year.

"You can appreciate that developing therapies for these diseases costs millions
of dollars and the application is very narrow in terms of the number of people
who can benefit," Messenger said.

Applications are available by calling 1-800-332-3692. The plan will begin
accepting applications on Aug. 1.

According to the Canadian Association for Rare Disorders, nearly three million
Canadians suffer from a rare disease, approximately half of whom are children.
Of more than 7,000 rare diseases, treatments have been developed for only about
300 of them.

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2014 The Telegraph Journal
                              All Rights Reserved


                              271 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                     The Times & Transcript (New Brunswick)

                             July 29, 2014 Tuesday

N.B. announces rare disease drug plan

SECTION: INTERNATIONAL; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 861 words


FREDERICTON * The New Brunswick government has announced a strategy to help
people struggling with the high cost of treatments for a number of rare
diseases.

The Health Department said yesterday it has established the New Brunswick Drugs
for Rare Diseases Plan which will cover expensive medications for people
suffering with uncommon afflictions.

The announcement comes after years of pleas, protests and petitions from people
and their families affected by rare, debilitating illnesses and sky-high
treatment bills.

One of those people, Annette Sebey of Perth-Andover, now will be able to access
the enzyme-replacement treatment she needs to treat late-onset Pompe disease - a
progressive, debilitating and often fatal neuromuscular condition caused by an
enzyme deficiency.

She is one of only 40 people in Canada, and the only person in New Brunswick,
with the disease.

"I will be joyous, once I am sitting in the chair for my first infusion in a New
Brunswick hospital," Sebey said in an interview from a Florida hospital where
she has been receiving treatments in a clinical drug trial.

"This is a big step forward."

Pompe patients in other provinces have been able to access treatment with the
costly drug, Myozyme. But in New Brunswick, the treatment was not on a list of
accepted drugs and the province did not have a special protocol to deal with
such rare occurrences.

In yesterday's announcement, Pompe is included on the list of five drugs for
specific rare diseases that now will be covered by the province.

The total cost of the drug program is estimated to be between $1 million and $4
million per year.

"It's the right thing to do," Health Minister Ted Flemming said in an interview
Monday.

"I found it personally troubling to hear someone say, 'If I didn't live in New
Brunswick, I would have coverage.' As minister of health, that troubled me and
it didn't sit right with me. We try to have the best health care we can ... this
will help people in need."

Liberal health critic Don Arseneault said he has been saying for many months
that the province's prescription drug plan, announced last year, fell short of
being the catastrophic drug program many individuals and groups wanted.

Arseneault said he is suspicious about the Tory government's sudden generosity
less than two months before the Sept. 22 provincial election.

"It's beginning to look like the 2010 campaign when the Tories promised the
world to everybody," the Liberal critic said in an interview.

"They are now coming out with all these commitments which were expected years
ago. We agree there should be a rare disease policy, but I find this
announcement surprising. I didn't see it coming because of the answers this
government has given on this issue in the past few years."

Flemming said he still believes there should be a national strategy for rare
disease drug coverage. But, failing that, he said he promised people like Sebey
he would consider a provincial program and move forward if possible.

He said the Health Department is projecting a $25 million surplus for the
current year, so he said the money can be found within the existing budget.

"I can do this for these people without asking for more money," Flemming said.
"It will be achieved within the existing Department of Health budget because we
are getting our fiscal house in order."

New Brunswick will partner with Ontario to deliver the plan using a "drugs for
rare diseases framework." Flemming said the framework gives New Brunswick
up-to-date information on rare disease drugs using the best available evidence
from the much larger province.

The plan will cover the cost of five drugs for specific rare diseases:

Aldurazyme for the treatment of Hurler and Hurler-Scheie forms of
Mucopolysaccharidosis I;

Elaprase for the treatment of Hunter Syndrome;

Ilaris for the treatment of Cryopyrin-Associated Periodic Syndrome;

Myozyme for the treatment of Pompe disease; and

Zavesca for the treatment of Niemann-Pick Type C.

There will be no cost to patients.

Dr. Mark Messenger, a pediatrician in Fredericton, welcomed the announcement.

"It is long overdue," Messenger said in an interview, saying the government
should be applauded for moving ahead with the drug plan.

"It really offers some hope to the few individuals in the province who have
these extremely rare diseases and, up to this point, have not had the same
access to care as other provinces in the country."

He said that in the case of the drug Aldurazyme, used for the treatment of
Hurler and Hurler-Scheie diseases, every other province has paid for the drug
except New Brunswick. The medication can cost as much as $200,000 per year.

"You can appreciate that developing therapies for these diseases costs millions
of dollars and the application is very narrow in terms of the number of people
who can benefit," Messenger said.

Applications are available by calling 1-800-332-3692. The plan will begin
accepting applications on Aug. 1.

According to the Canadian Association for Rare Disorders, nearly three million
Canadians suffer from a rare disease, approximately half of whom are children.
Of more than 7,000 rare diseases, treatments have been developed for only about
300 of them.

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2014 The Times & Transcript
                              All Rights Reserved


                              272 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                           The Advertiser (Australia)

                           January 25, 2014 Saturday
                                   1 Edition

AGAINST THE ODDS

BYLINE: WORDS ELISA BLACK

SECTION: MAGAZINE; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 2855  words


The almost 1.5 million Australians who live with a rare disease want a better
deal after years falling through the cracks in a health system focused on more
common illnesses

CHARLOTTE ELLIOTT, 7 (left)

DAW PARK

AT FIRST HE THOUGHT it was a mouse, gnawing away at the walls. The clicking had
begun just after 1am, while accountant Mark Elliott caught up on some work and
his young children - seven-year-old Tom, three-year-old Charlotte and baby Lucy
- slept upstairs.

But when the clicking didn't stop, Mark went to check, just in case. He found
Charlotte having a full-body seizure, her arms and legs stretched out to the
walls, her face bright red, her lips clenched and blue. The clicking Mark heard
was her teeth knocking together.

Rushed to the Women's and Children's Hospital, it was initially thought an ear
infection the toddler was suffering had turned into encephalitis, but further
seizures led to further tests and time in ICU before she was eventually
diagnosed with FIRES. Febrile Infection-Related Epilepsy Syndrome is usually
first seen in children aged between three and 15 and causes uncontrollable
seizures that can be resistant to medications and other treatments. It typically
affects boys and is seen in just one in a million children - Mark knows of two
others in Australia with the syndrome.

Charlotte takes a cocktail of medications to try to ease her seizures, which can
occur as often as 40 times a week, and any seizure that lasts longer than three
minutes can mean an ambulance to hospital. Even the medications can have
devastating side effects - things like facial deformity and desperate mood
swings.

Surgery is not an option for Charlotte. Because of the intensity of the
seizures, children are often left with learning disabilities, behavioural
disorders, memory issues or an inability to move. Sometimes they die.

"She's still like a three-year-old, I describe her as being frozen in time,"
Mark says of the now seven-year-old. "At first I had real difficulties dealing
with it. My mental wellbeing, my work, relationships, friendships, all of it was
affected.

There was adrenalin all the time."

There are no warning signs when Charlotte is about to have a seizure - she can
be well just moments before and has to wear a head-bumper to protect her when
she drops to the ground. All of this makes it hard for her to make friends and
she spends a lot of time on her own.

Mark says the hardships that come with having a desperately unwell child are
complicated when the child is suffering with a rare disease. "People don't have
an answer and there is no solution," he says. "It's very hard to find research
or literature to see how others deal with it, where success has come from. There
is no known cure. I'm endlessly researching, writing to people, it can be
extremely frustrating and isolating." While Mark shares custody of his kids with
his ex-wife, he spends the nights he has with them curled up next to Charlotte,
so he can protect her should she have another seizure as she sleeps. "I still
have guilt over that first seizure, when I ignored the clicking sound," he says.

KIAANA BROWN, 18 (below)

CHRISTIES BEACH

WHEN KIAANA BROWN was finally diagnosed with Batten Disease at 16, her mum had a
difficult decision to make. Upon learning her daughter had the condition - after
12 years of looking for a diagnosis - Alicia Brown scoured the internet, looking
for information, looking for hope. In the process she discovered many parents
don't tell their children they have Batten Disease because the prognosis is so
grim - to date it has always been fatal.

Six months after the diagnosis, after she had watched her daughter battle with
the toll her condition was taking on her relationships, her self-esteem, Alicia
took Kiaana for walk and asked her if she would want to know if she had
something serious like cancer, something that could kill her. Kiaana said yes.
"I discovered on the international forums that no one tells their kids," Alicia
says. "How do you tell them that they are going to completely degenerate and
die? But she'd gone from being a happy girl to not understanding what was going
on, she didn't understand why she was angry all the time, why she had a vision
impairment and had developed a speech impediment. She thought it was happening
because she was a bad person.

"Each day she was miserable because everything was so hard so she pinned all her
hopes and dreams on the future, but I knew what the future held, and knowing it
turned life on its head for me and taught me to appreciate each day and I
desperately wanted her to be able to do the same and to know the importance of
every day that she lived. She said 'I don't want to go to my grave without
knowing who I am'."

Batten Disease is an inherited neurodegenerative condition. The disease causes
the death of neurons but no one knows why. Symptoms usually appear in childhood
- problems with vision, clumsiness, behavioural changes and slow learning are
common - before worsening over time. A very articulate child, Kiaana, now 18,
struggles to speak; no central vision means she can't read or see anything in
detail; she is finding it increasingly hard to process information and often
feels and is treated like she is stupid and less capable than she is; she is
medicated to prevent seizures, forgets to swallow, and has trouble regulating
her emotions. Her future will bring complete loss of sight, speech and mobility;
she will eventually lose the ability to swallow and will need to be fed through
a tube in her stomach; she will be wheelchair-bound and bedridden until
everything shuts down and she stops breathing. In the meantime there is the
threat of increasing seizures, dementia, spasticity, incontinence, night terrors
and cognitive decline. There is nothing known that can stop or slow this and
each person is unique in their progression of the disease.

Batten Disease is found in about four of every 100,000 births, which means
Kiaana has also had to struggle with being isolated by a condition no one has
heard of, while Alicia is faced, not only with the reality of caring for a
terminally ill child, but the pressure of trying to raise awareness and funds to
find a cure. Kiaana is currently the only living person the family knows of with
Batten Disease in South Australia. "Your life becomes consumed with the reality
and you know you just can't stop with the campaigning, because if you give it
up, who will continue?" Alicia says. "And this goes on forever, even after you
have watched your child fade away and die and move into a lifetime of grieving.
It simply never lets up. All the while you have to put on the brave face and
show constant gratitude for every little thing that others do, even when it is
nowhere near enough."

After fighting for a correct diagnosis for more than a decade - Alicia was told
Kiaana just had eyesight problems and needed glasses, then that she was bipolar
or schizophrenic among other misdiagnoses - the pair are now trying to make the
most of the time they have.

Kiaana has moved out of her mum's home and is housesharing.

She is looking forward to her Year 12 formal, and hopes to fall in love, marry
and start a family.

The pair used Kiaana's recent 18th birthday party as a chance to launch Kiaana's
Quest - Shining a Light on Batten Disease on Facebook and everydayhero.com.au to
try and raise $18,000.

"It's going to be a tough journey and all your strengths and weaknesses will be
exposed," Alicia says. "But you will find out you are so much stronger than you
ever had any idea was possible."

MIKAYLA CAMPBELL, 8 (above)

OTTOWAY

ON MIKAYLA CAMPBELL'S fourth birthday, she sang, clapped, danced and happily
blew out the candles on her cake. Within six months she had lost the ability to
communicate. When Kellie Campbell found out her daughter had Sanfilippo Syndrome
, her first question was "how do we fix it?". Her doctor told her all she could
do was enjoy the time they had left.

A neurodegenerative disease seen in 1 in 70,000 live births, Sanfilippo Syndrome
will inexorably rob Mikayla of all of her skills, quirks, and memories. Of
everything that makes her Mikayla. It will eventually take her life.

Kellie, 34, and her husband, Jamie, 40, knew something was wrong because their
daughter's speech was not developing normally. They had diagnoses ranging from
hearing problems to global development delay, but never in their wildest
thoughts did they think their daughter had something so devastating.

The now eight-year-old, who for the first years of her life had been developing
normally, has now lost the ability to speak, is struggling to walk and needs her
food pureed and thickened so she doesn't inhale it.

"On her birthday she was singing, blowing out the candles on her cake, clapping
and cheering," Kellie says. "Within six months she couldn't blow anymore, she
couldn't communicate. Sometimes it's hard to see the decline. It's only when you
realise she hasn't thrown a ball for a while, only when you look back, that you
realise she's lost it and you missed it."

With only three other cases of Sanfilippo known to Kellie in South Australia,
the isolation that comes with the diagnosis of a rare disease has compounded the
pain her family is experiencing. "With cancer there's hope, there's a light at
the end of the tunnel," she says. "With this one, we just have to watch her
slowly disappear."

Megan Donnell, who founded the Sanfilippo Children's Foundation in September
after both of her young children were diagnosed, says the only thing worse than
the tragedy of losing both her children would be to allow it to be in vain. Her
foundation aims to enable access to emerging treatments and trials, improve the
diagnosis pathway, raise awareness and improve the quality of life for children
with the syndrome.

"Families diagnosed with this condition can feel very isolated when even their
paediatrician or GP may not have heard of it, and are often in the dark about
where medical research is at and what options they may have for treatment," she
says. "It can also be difficult to get the research and pharmaceutical world
interested in rare diseases as the commercial imperative is often not as obvious
as it is with 'big' diseases.

"Rare diseases like Sanfilippo Syndrome really have the capacity to touch a lot
of people and provide the opportunity for 'everyday people' to make a
significant difference in the lives of the affected."

Having had to recently cut Mikayla's long curly hair short as she was pulling it
out, Kellie says the hardest part of the syndrome is watching the daughter she
knows disappear.

"Even though I have wonderful support from my family, especially from my son,
Jake, it's hard to see her losing skills," she says. "It's hardest to see her
lose her dancing and singing. She used to make out she was holding a microphone
and she would giggle. Now you do those things that used to make her laugh and
she looks at you like 'what are you doing?'. I should have paid more attention.
Taken more photos."

TAYLA BARREAU, 14 (below)

WOODCROFT

THE PARADE OF familiar faces past her daughter's hospital bed did little to
quell the fear rising in Jackie Barreau. Having already lost a son, two-year-old
Luke, to cancer in 1998, the discovery of a lump in 12-year-old Tayla's abdomen
felt like the worst kind of recurring nightmare. Sporty and slender as a reed,
Tayla had dismissed the lump as a pulled muscle. It was only when the colour
drained from her face, and she complained of a racing heart, that her mum took
her to the doctor.

"The first doctor said it could be a hernia but once they saw a mass on the
ultrasound we were sent to the hospital," Jackie says. "I just thought I
couldn't believe we were going through this again."

A barrage of tests later and Tayla was diagnosed with a paraganglioma, a
neuroendocrine tumour that secretes hormones that had led to her frighteningly
high blood pressure and tachycardia. Further investigation revealed Tayla has
the rare SDHB gene, a mutation that predisposes her to recurrent tumours of this
kind, generally with a high rate of malignancy. It is seen in around one in a
million people. Tayla's dad, David, and younger sister, Mia, have also been
found to carry the gene. Tayla's condition is unrelated to the cancer that
killed her brother. Luckily, until now the three tumours discovered in Tayla's
body have been benign.

Struggling to find a reason for Tayla's diagnosis, Jackie turned to writing,
pouring her fears on to the page, and read everything she could in an effort to
learn and raise awareness, to help others going through the same thing. She is
an advocate of the Unicorn Foundation which supports patients with
neuroendocrine cancers, and donates proceeds from the sale of her book of poetry
to the Women's and Children's Hospital.

At a recent school swimming carnival, Tayla, now 14 and a Year 8 student at
Reynella East College, wore a bikini that showed off the scars on her tummy.
When she told the kids who asked what they were from, many were surprised. "I'm
the only kid I know dealing with something like this," she says. "I was mostly
annoyed that I couldn't play soccer for a while though and that I missed my
karate black belt grading."

As someone who knows a thing or two about the resilience of children, Jackie's
face is still suffused with pride when Tayla bounces out of the room, speaking a
mile a minute about school and sport and friends. "She was always happy and
positive and funny and full of

energy but she has also really matured," Jackie says. "To look at her, you'd
never know she was unwell."

RARE DISEASES, COMMON CONCERNS

They are the invisible ones. When it comes to funding, research, and even
correct and timely diagnoses, close to 1.5 million Australians don't exist -
suffering from diseases and conditions so rare they are falling between the
cracks of a health system that fails to serve or recognise them. Rare diseases
affect an astounding number of Australians: almost one and a half times the
number of people with diabetes. A "rare disease" is defined as any disorder or
condition that is life-threatening or chronically debilitating with an estimated
prevalence of 5 in 10,000 - or of similarly low prevalence and high level of
complexity that special combined efforts are needed to address the disorder or
condition.

With little high-profile publicity or attention - there is no ribbon to wear, no
pavement to pound - those living with rare diseases have been largely forgotten.

There are more than 7000 rare diseases and many have no formal title and are
difficult to diagnose.

People living with rare diseases can go years searching for an explanation for
their symptoms. They begin to feel like hypochondriacs, that it is all in their
head.

Rare Voices Australia was formed in early 2012 as Australia's National Rare
Disease Alliance to promote health policy and a healthcare system that works for
those with rare diseases. It is pushing for a National Rare Disease Plan, to
provide clear national guidance on rare disease management and research, a
co-ordinated response that can be delivered within existing resources, while
helping promote research and diagnosis, treatment and care. The plan has been
accepted by health departments in WA and the Northern Territory.

Rare Voices Australia executive director Megan Fookes says the current situation
not only costs those with a rare disease in terms of quality of life, it is also
economically unsustainable. Patients with rare diseases account for a
disproportionately high cost to the healthcare system in comparison to other
patients.

"Most have a horrific diagnostic odyssey and the economic cost is astronomical,"
Mrs Fookes says.

"If you don't exist in a health system then you don't have your needs met. These
people use a lot of health services, some have eight to 10 specialists. Some
can't work because they are caring for family members with a rare disease. The
economic burden is unreal, especially when added to the stress of caring for
someone who is sick."

Mrs Fookes hopes Rare Voices Australia will deliver solutions to some of the
most pressing problems faced by those struggling for information, support,
appropriate treatments and understanding. "These people haven't smoked, haven't
eaten too much, they were born with a rare condition through no fault of their
own," she says. "A lot are told it is in their head until a diagnosis is finally
made. Doctors and clinicians are in a tough spot as they can't meet their needs
ethically and physically. We need complex, clever and innovative approaches that
will fall into line with a lot of what is already happening. At the moment,
unfortunately, for some a diagnosis comes too late."

An SA Health spokeswoman says more work is needed before the state can adopt the
National Rare Diseases Plan proposed by Rare Voices. Among other things it would
need to consider the merits of a national approach against existing states and
territory systems.

International Rare Disease Day is on February 28 and this year will mark the 7th
event with more than 70 million rare disease patients globally raising awareness
on this day.

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: ADV


                   Copyright 2014 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              273 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               The Jerusalem Post

                            July 27, 2005 Wednesday

MKs, doctors seek 'parents' to adopt 'orphan diseases'

BYLINE: JUDY SIEGEL

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 522 words


The Israel Medical Association has voiced its support for legislation that would
ensure state funding of lifesaving drugs for serious and even life-threatening
rare diseases, known as "orphan diseases," that affect thousands of Israelis.

While the US, Europe, Japan, Singapore and Australia all have orphan disease
laws that give incentives to drug companies to finance research, treatments and
cures, Israel still does not have these laws. Among the orphan syndromes are
several incurable "Jewish diseases" such as Tay-Sachs, familial dysautonomia,
Canavan's disease and Neiman-Pick.

At a symposium on orphan drugs, IMA chairman Dr. Yoram Blachar offered his
organization's enthusiastic support for a private members' bill initiated by
former health minister MK Nissim Dahan and MK Dr. Leah Nass. The bill would set
up a special fund for orphan disease treatments. It would also provide tax
incentives and other benefits to drug companies, which produce treatments for
such diseases affecting 60,000 Israelis.

Guest speaker Dr. Marlene Haffner, director of the Office of Orphan Products
Development at the US Food and Drug Administration, said that there are "no
expensive drugs but expensive diseases." She explained that although medications
for orphan disease are usually high priced, the financial benefits of a cure and
cutting down periodic treatment often makes the drugs cost-effective.

Leon Musikant, a computer specialist who heads EITAN - the Israel Association
for Rare Diseases, said that such syndromes could hit any family. "I prefer to
call them 'poor diseases' rather than orphans because these rare disorders lack
money for treatment and research, and people have sympathy for orphans."

So far, the predicament of Israeli patients with some 300 rare diseases has not
found sympathy in the government, he said. He urged that small centers for each
disease be set up, even if it is only one doctor coordinating it, and that
foreign foundations be encouraged to finance research and development of
treatments. Israel has the unique ability to serve as a laboratory for the study
of many of these diseases, because of its diverse ethnic population and
inbreeding.

Ministry deputy director-general Dr. Yitzhak Berlovich participated in the forum
held at Jerusalem's Mishkenot Sha'ananim conference center. He told The
Jerusalem Post that the ministry has not yet had a formal discussion on whether
to support the private members' bill, but said he would personally recommend it.
The IMA suggested that the health funds were trying to remove treatment for
Fabry's, but Berlovich dismissed the claims.

"This will not happen. We will not allow a drug to be removed from the basket,"
he stated.

Considered the "father of orphan diseases," Prof. Robert Desnick, head of the
Human Genetics Department at New York's Mount Sinai Medical Center, spoke about
his role in the development of orphan drugs, which include Cerezyme for
Gaucher's disease and Fabryzyme for Fabry's disease. Desnick is a regular
visitor to Israel.

A full report on orphan diseases, including an interview with Desnick, will
appear on the Health Page on July 31.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Jerusalem Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              274 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                           Pittsburgh Tribune Review

                          September 16, 2010 Thursday

Shaler woman battles rare disease

BYLINE: Bethany Hofstetter

LENGTH: 646 words


Every day Cindy Urso wakes up with a migraine-strength headache.

When the headaches aren't completely debilitating and she is able to climb out
of bed, she goes directly to the medicine cabinet.

"I have bottles of prescriptions, I feel like it's breakfast, lunch and dinner,"
said Urso, 41, of Shaler.

Urso is one of about 25,000 people in the United States struggling with
Intracranial Hypertension (IH), a rare disease in which the spinal fluid
pressure in the skull is too high causing severe headaches, vision loss or
blindness from swollen optic nerves and numerous additional symptoms.

Urso was diagnosed with IH in January 2009 after being plagued with
unexplainable headaches.

In the past year, Urso has had seven surgeries to insert various types of shunts
to try to relieve some of the spinal fluid pressure. However, the pressure still
spikes landing Urso in the hospital almost every other month for a week at a
time to correct the problem.

"I really, truly hope someday -- for the time-being -- for a medicine that can
get us through the day comfortably and in the future, a cure," Urso says.

The Intracranial Hypertension Research Foundation, based out of Vancouver,
Wash., is the only nonprofit organization in the world devoted to supporting
medical research of chronic IH, according to its website.

Currently the IHRF is working to compile a global registry of individuals with
an IH diagnosis and a neuro-imaging library of IH patients' brain scans for
scientists to research possible commonalities.

"There's so little (research) going on and the need for it is so great," says
Jessica Tanne, of the IHRF.

In 2007, it's estimated that the economic impact of confirmed IH cases was $444
million. That number would be higher, except there is no diagnostic code for
secondary IH -- cases of IH caused from another medical issue.

"There really needs to be a better solution, a lot of people are suffering,"
Tanne says. "We really need people to know about this disorder and the effect
it's having on people and their lives."

Life before IH

Urso had an active life before IH. She was a teacher's aide at Marzolf Primary,
shuttled her children to and from after-school activities and cared for their
special needs. Urso's daughter, Ashley, 20, has Down syndrome, and her son, Jan,
14, has Asperger's syndrome.

"For all these years, I'm so used to helping them, it's sort of like the roles
are reversed," Urso says.

Urso's husband, Jan, now is the sole breadwinner and takes overtime when he can,
and the children have increased their responsibilities.

"I help her with everything -- laundry, cooking, cleaning, feeding pets," Ashley
says.

Ashley says her mother is "strong and brave" to live with IH, but she misses the
days of her mom taking her to cheerleading practice or spending a "girls day"
out shopping together.

"Before she got IH, we had so much fun together," Ashley said. "Now it's been
always a lazy day at home."

Urso says IH is "a lonely disease" because so little is known about it and
patients don't "look sick."

During very difficult times, Urso turns to the Internet for support from others
who are living with the disease.

"If you have a really bad day, you don't want to keep laying that all on your
family," she says.

Urso even made contact with another person from Pittsburgh who is living with
IH. The two hope one day to be well enough at the same time to meet.

Urso's family continues to be her biggest support system and gives her the
courage and determination to face IH everyday.

During September, IH Awareness month, she hopes to make others aware of the rare
disease and how it affects others.

"I hope people realize not to take their health for granted," Urso says. "I
don't want people to feel sorry for me or pity me, but know that there are rare
diseases out there and to know there are people out there walking around
struggling."

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2010 Tribune Review Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              275 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                  Bristol Post

                           February 25, 2016 Thursday

'MY SON'S DISEASE IS LIKE A TICKING TIME BOMB'

BYLINE: Emma Grimshaw; emma.grimshaw@b-nm.co.uk

SECTION: NEWS:HEALTH; Pg. 16-17

LENGTH: 786  words


AN 11-year-old boy from   Stockwood is the only person in Britain to suffer from
a rare disease which means he has no immune system.

Jack Buchanan has tricho hepato enteric (THE) syndrome - a disorder which has
only ever been diagnosed 40 times worldwide.

He has to take daily antibiotics and weekly blood infusions to help prevent
infections.

So far, no-one with the condition has ever lived beyond their 21st birthday and
the majority die before they are five.

Mother Jaime Jones said the disease is like a ticking time bomb, which no parent
should ever had to endure.

It took doctors eight years to discover what was causing Jack's health problems
which caused him to be wired up to a feeding tube after he was born.

Jaime was desperate for some kind of diagnosis for her son but it was not until
a specialist mapped out his genes that they found a mutation which identified
the rare condition.

The 32-year-old said: "For me, it's really hard. No parent should have to look
at their child and wonder how long they have left.

"It's very isolating as well. I've spoken to other parents in America and
Australia whose children have the same condition and they find it very difficult
because there are no support groups out there.

"If it was Down's Syndrome or something similar, then you could meet other
parents in a similar situation."

There is no known cure for THE, but Jack has undergone several operations and
spent many months at a time at Bristol Children's Hospital.

To say thank-you to the doctors and nurses who have cared for him over the
years, Jack and Jaime are organising a non-uniform day to raise money for The
Grand Appeal.

The event at Ashton Park School on Monday also coincides with Rare Disease Day.

Jaime said: "Jack has spent so much time at Bristol Children's Hospital since he
was born and we wanted to give a little bit back.

"When he was first born we realised something wasn't right because he was wasn't
feeding properly or putting on weight.

"He had to be put on a feeding machine, like a drip, for 20 hours a day.

"But for a long time doctors weren't able to say what he had.

"His condition means he gets tired very quickly and becomes ill if he over
exerts himself. He is at constant risk of infection, so needs to make sure he
gets enough rest to stay healthy.

"We saw that Monday  February 29 was Rare Disease Day and it seemed like a great
time to support the Grand Appeal, while helping raise awareness of such rare
conditions like THE.

"We are so grateful to Jack's school, Ashton Park, who have played a massive
part in helping build his confidence and include him in all their activities,
making any adjustments needed.

"Luckwell Primary School, where Jack's brother Ellis is a pupil, is also taking
part and we hope to raise as much as we can to support the Grand Appeal."

Jack is able to attend his local comprehensive thanks to the school allowing him
to sleep if necessary, in a special room.

Jaime said: "It is hard for him because a cold can soon escalate into a
three-week hospital stay.

"His school has been great they have plans in place to help him whenever someone
else is ill. Sometimes lessons like PE might be too much for him, because he can
get tired very easily, but everyone is very helpful."

Every day Jack has the antibodies from 1,000 people injected into his legs.

This novel treatment is based on the idea that among such a large group of
people, resistance to the majority of illnesses will have been built up, helping
Jack fight off as many germs as possible.

Grand Appeal community fundraiser Laura Madams said: "Every penny that the Grand
Appeal raises helps us to make sure Bristol Children's Hospital can provide the
very best care possible to young patients like Jack. We are very proud of the
amazing doctors and nurses we have on our doorstep here in Bristol, who have the
knowledge and expertise to care for children with such rare conditions.

"We'd like to say a huge thank-you to Jack, Jaime and of course Ashton Park
School and Luckwell Primary School for supporting us with their dress down day
on Rare Disease Day."

Sufferers of THE typically have facial features with low-set ears, prominent
eyes, a broad flat nose, prominent forehead and a large mouth.

Rare Disease Day takes place on the last day of February each year.

The main objective of the event  is to raise awareness amongst the  public and
decision-makers about rare diseases and their impact on patients' lives.

The campaign started as a European event and has progressively become a world
phenomenon, with the USA joining in 2009 and participation in over 80 countries
throughout the world in 2015.

Thousands of events have taken place throughout the world reaching hundreds of
thousands of people.

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2016 Localworld
                              All Rights Reserved


                              276 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                Worthing Herald

                              March 4, 2016 Friday

Worthing teenager's family fight for awareness of rare disease

LENGTH: 676  words


The family of a teenager with an exceptionally rare disease are raising
awareness in a bid to find a cure.

Jennifer Lynch, 14, from Worthing, has Wolfram Syndrome, which can cause
diabetes, visual impairment, coordination, breathing, deafness, bladder and
neurological problems.

Wolfram Syndrome (WS) affects one in 500,000 children, and there is currently no
cure for the condition. Charity Wolfram Syndrome UK is fundraising to support
research in to a drug that has been identified as showing signs of slowing down
or stopping the progression of the condition.

The charity said a minimum of £600,000 is needed for the first stage - getting
to clinical trials in the next five years.

Tracy Lynch, Jennifer's mum, said: "As a small child Jennifer was always
uncomfortable in new surroundings, with new people and particularly shy with
men, including her grandfathers. This was put down to her personality; it was
only once she was diagnosed with Wolfram Syndrome that it was found out that
being anxious, upset and easily agitated was all part of the condition."

After being in and out of hospitals for years, Jennifer was eventually diagnosed
in 2010. But since then, she underwent a tracheostomy, after her lung collapsed
after she choked.

Tracy said: "The decision was made for her to have a tracheostomy, hopefully a
temporary measure.

"She was on PICU for four weeks and then a further week and two days on a
general ward in London before being transferred back to our hospital in Worthing
for a further three weeks."

Jennifer has blossomed at her secondary school - and is joining in sports
lessons where she had previously been excluded.

Tracy added: "Jennifer doesn't live a normal social life like any other 14 year
old does. She has to be accompanied everywhere she goes; not just because of the
vision issues but also and more importantly because of the tracheostomy.

"You can never tell when this might require suctioning. At the moment only her
dad and I are trained in the care of this and it obviously isn't cool to be out
with parents all the time."

Tracy said WS is a life-limiting condition, although she said Jennifer isn't
fully aware of the long-term health implications.

Jennifer's family started the Wolfram Syndrome support group in 2010, after
finding there was no support in the UK for anyone else affected by the
condition.

The group holds fundraising events throughout the year and is appealing for a
celebrity to become an ambassador for the charity.

"Raising awareness of such a rare syndrome among the public and especially among
the medical profession is very important to us. Many doctors have never heard of
the condition or are likely to ever come across a person affected by the
syndrome," said Tracy.

Professor Tim Barrett, Lead Wolfram Syndrome researcher in the UK, said: "At the
end of the day, the world of big pharmaceuticals and medical research is
incredibly competitive and very money driven; any number of groups could fund
this research and potentially find a life changing treatment for Wolfram
Syndrome.

"I know that we're on the cusp of a cure that can save children like Jennifer. I
just need someone to listen to us."

To find out more visit {http://www.wolframsyndrome.co.uk|
www.wolframsyndrome.co.uk}

Don't miss out on all the latest breaking news where you live.

Here are four ways you can be sure you'll be amongst the first to know what's
going on.

1) Make our website your homepage at {http://www.worthingherald.co.uk/|
www.worthingherald.co.uk/ | www.worthingherald.co.uk/}

2) Like our Facebook page at {https://www.facebook.com/Worthing.news |
www.facebook.com/Worthing.news| www.facebook.com/Worthing.news}

3) Follow us on Twitter {https://twitter.com/Worthing_Herald | @Worthing_Herald
| @Worthing_Herald}

4) Register with us by clicking on sign in' (top right corner). You can then
receive our daily newsletter AND add your point of view to stories that you read
here.

And do share with your family and friends - so they don't miss out!

The Worthing Herald - always the first with your local news.

Be part of it.

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: JPWD


                       Copyright 2016 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved


                              277 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               The Nuneaton News

                           December 18, 2007 Tuesday

REGISTER OF HOPE

BYLINE: MORT BIRCH

LENGTH: 494 words


A GRIEVING Nuneaton couple have embarked on a campaign to make sure their
daughter did not die in vain. Kevin and Julia Plummer want a national register
of experts in rare diseases to be created,  so that sufferers can get the care,
advice and the treatment that they need. Their daughter Alyson died of Gitelmans
Syndrome, a kidney deficiency which  affects one in 10,000 people, but it is not
listed as a life-threatening illness.

Only about 30 people in the United Kingdom know that they have the syndrome,
which affects the kidneys and leads to a dangerously low level of potassium and
magnesium, the electrolytes that control the heart. Once vivacious and full of
life, the 28-year-old occupational therapist became constantly fatigued and
eventually died following a seizure at her flat in Northampton. Her devastated
father said: "She'd had a normal day, but she was very tired, had her tea and
went to bed and her partner heard her making funny noises and she died." Alyson
was diagnosed with Gitelmans Syndrone in 2003: "Every time she went to see a
doctor, or a member of the medical profession and told them what she had got
their response would be 'We've never heard of it' and the ones who had heard
about it said it was not life threatening," said Mr Plummer. "When Alyson was
diagnosed, we had no idea what Gitelmans Syndrome was, but we have managed to
find three experts on the illness and she could have been referred to one of
them. If we could find them, surely somebody else could as well."If there was a
national register of experts on rare disease, then doctors could refer it to. In
these days of electronic communication, websites and the internet it shouldn't
be difficult. "Alyson was so frustrated and so desperate to talk to somebody who
understood what she was suffering from and who could advise her what to do about
it." The couple, whose home is in Lilleburne Drive, Nuneaton, had to wait until
the week before last for Alyson's inquest to be held at Northampton, where the
coroner recorded a verdict of death by natural causes. "We sat there at an
inquest into our daughter's death from an illness that we were told was not
life-threatening," said Mr Plummer, who is a service engineer. "The last two
years have been devastating and her death has left a huge hole." Alyson was
brought up at Stockingford and went to Stockingford Church School, Alderman
Smith School and King Edward VI Sixth Form College, before graduating from the
University of Oxford Brooks, with a degree in occupational therapy. She worked
at St Andrew's Hospital in Northampton, where she was taken on the day she died
in November 2005. Her mother, who is an assistant theatre practitioner, said:
"She was my best friend. We were very close.  "She had so many different groups
of friends in Nuneaton and she was the catalyst who kept them together. "We are
both devastated and now we just want to make sure something is done, so that
Alyson did not die in vain."

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: HN


                    Copyright 2007 Iliffe News and Media Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              278 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                      August 18, 2016 Thursday 6:30 AM EST

FDA Grants Soligenix Orphan Drug Designation for Dusquetide for Treatment of
Macrophage Activation Syndrome

LENGTH: 352  words


Aug. 18 -- Soligenix, Inc. (OTCQB: SNGX) (Soligenix or the Company), a
late-stage biopharmaceutical company focused on developing and commercializing
products to treat rare diseases where there is an unmet medical need, announced
today that the Office of Orphan Products Development of the US Food and Drug
Administration (FDA) has granted orphan drug designation to the active
ingredient dusquetide for treatment of macrophage activation syndrome (MAS).
Dusquetide has previously received orphan drug designation for the treatment of
acute radiation syndrome (ARS). Dusquetide is an innate defense regulator (IDR),
a new class of short, synthetic peptides that accelerates bacterial clearance
and resolution of tissue damage while modulating inflammation following exposure
to a variety of agents including bacterial pathogens, trauma, radiation and/or
chemotherapy.

The US Orphan Drug Act is intended to assist and encourage companies to develop
safe and effective therapies for the treatment of rare diseases and disorders.
In addition to providing a seven year term of market exclusivity upon final FDA
approval, orphan drug designation also positions Soligenix to be able to
leverage a wide range of financial and regulatory benefits, including government
grants for conducting clinical trials, waiver of expensive FDA user fees for the
potential submission of a New Drug Application, and certain tax credits.

"The FDA's decision to grant dusquetide orphan drug designation signifies an
important step for Soligenix as we continue to expand our biotherapeutics
pipeline and the many potential applications of our novel IDR technology,"
stated Christopher J. Schaber, PhD, President and Chief Executive Officer of
Soligenix. "Dusquetide's activity in preclinical models has demonstrated the
potential to enhance mechanisms of the innate immune system to clear infection
and modulate the inflammatory response, the critical attributes of this syndrome
. The marketing exclusivity that orphan drug designation imparts adds
significantly to the existing intellectual property surrounding dusquetide."

Source: Soligenix

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2016 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              279 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                June 28, 1980, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

TAMPONS ARE LINKED TO A RARE DISEASE

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1; Page 17, Column 6; Style Desk

LENGTH: 578 words

DATELINE: ATLANTA, June 27


The use of tampons has been linked to a rare disease called toxic shock syndrome
that primarily affects young women, national health officials said today, but
preliminary studies show no reason for most women to discontinue tampon use.

The Center for Disease Control here reported the results of three studies of the
syndrome, a sometimes fatal disease characterized by high fever, vomiting,
diarrhea, a sunburnlike rash and a rapid drop in blood pressure, which
frequently results in shock.

Ninety-three women who had the disease were included in the three studies, which
were conducted by Federal and state health officials in Wisconsin and Utah. All
but one of the women regularly used tampons, officials at the center said in
their report.

Since 1978, 128 cases of toxic shock syndrome have been reported, with 10
resulting in death, the report said. Most cases, it said, occur in women under
25, and more than 90 percent began during the menstrual period. But a small
number of cases have been identified in men.

Bacterium Is Suspected

Dr. Kathryn Shands, an epidemiologist with the center, said researchers had not
determined exactly how tampon use was related to the disease. Earlier studies
have indicated that the syndrome may be caused by a toxin associated with
Staphylococcus aureus, a common bacterium that causes pus to form in boils and
abcesses, the report said.

If such a toxin is the cause, it said, ''the use of tampons might favor growth
of the bacterium in the vagina or absorption of the toxin from the vagina or
uterus - but these possibilities have not been investigated.''

Future tests are to be conducted in consultation with the Food and Drug
Administration, the report added.  Dr. Shands said about 50 million American
women use tampons, but toxic shock syndrome occurs in only about three of
100,000 menstruating women each year.

Discontinuance Not Proposed
''Because we expect only a small number of women to get the disease, we are
suggesting that women not discontinue tampon use unless they have had toxic
shock syndrome already,'' she said.

The center's report added, however, that women ''who wish to decrease their
small risk of T.S.S. may choose to use tampons during only part of their
menstrual period or to use napkins or minipads instead.''

Women who have had the disease should refrain from using tampons for at least
several menstrual cycles after their illness, Dr.  Shands said. Antibiotics can
be used to reduce the risk of recurrence.

Dr. Shands said 2 to 15 percent of American women may carry the Staphylococcus
aureus bacterium in their bodies, but ''we don't know why some of them get sick
and some don't.''

Health officials do not recommend testing for the bacterium unless a woman has
shown symptoms of toxic shock syndrome, she said. Women who believe they may
have the symptoms should consult a physician.

Industry Helping Studies

No particular brand of tampon has been associated with the disease, the center
said.  Representatives of the tampon industry noted that toxic shock syndrome is
rare and said they were cooperating with the center's studies.

''We have not encountered the illness at any time during more than 40 years of
clinical testing of our product, so we have no direct knowledge of the
illness,'' said Robert L. DeSanti, executive vice president of Tampax Inc. of
Lake Success, N.Y., which has a 40 percent to 50 percent share of the market in
tampon products.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company


                              280 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                       July 5, 2017 Wednesday 6:30 AM EST

ProQR's Drug Candidate QRX-411 for Usher Syndrome Receives Orphan Drug
Designation from FDA and EMA

LENGTH: 673  words


July 5 -- ProQR Therapeutics N.V. (Nasdaq:PRQR) today announced that the
company's investigational drug QRX-411 has received orphan drug designation
(ODD) from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and European Medicines
Agency (EMA) for the treatment of retinitis pigmentosa, including Usher syndrome
, the subtype targeted by QRX-411. Usher syndrome is the leading cause of
combined deafness and blindness due to genetic defects in the Usher gene.

ODD in the U.S. and European Union provides a special status for investigational
drugs being developed for rare diseases.  The ODD programs offer development
program tax benefits and a waiver of the NDA application user fee, as well as
market exclusivity for up to seven years in the U.S., and ten years in the
European Union following market approval.

"We are pleased with the progress we have made to date with our novel RNA based
therapeutic ophthalmology pipeline for patients suffering from genetic eye
diseases.  Securing orphan drug designations from the FDA and EMA for QRX-411 is
a milestone for the program and highlights the importance of addressing the
unmet need of this debilitating disease," said Daniel A. de Boer, CEO of ProQR,
"The severe genetic retinal diseases we are targeting do not have any available
therapies, especially disease modifying therapies focused on restoring vision or
impeding progression of the disease.  We believe our novel RNA oligonucleotide
approach has the potential to make a meaningful impact in the lives of Usher
syndrome patients and others with rare genetic eye diseases."

Chief Development Strategy Officer, David M. Rodman, MD, notes, "At ProQR we
have a unique opportunity to combine the flexibility of our oligonucleotide drug
discovery platform with accelerated drug development strategies for rare
diseases.  Orphan drug designation is an important step in rapidly bringing
transformational precision medicines to patients with Usher syndrome and many
other genetic causes of blindness in children and adults."

ProQR's growing ophthalmology portfolio includes:

* QR-110 for Leber's congenital amaurosis Type 10 (LCA 10) due to the p.Cys998X
mutation, which received IND and CTA clearance and is in clinical development
(PQ-110-001 Phase 1/2 safety and efficacy study).  QR-110 was also granted Fast
Track designation by the FDA and Orphan Drug designation by the FDA and EMA.

* QRX-411 for Usher syndrome type II due to the PE-40 mutation in the USH2A
gene, for which a clinical candidate has been selected and is ready for IND
enabling development studies.

* QRX-421 for Usher syndrome type II due to Exon 13 mutations in the USH2A gene,
for which a clinical candidate has been selected and is ready for IND enabling
development studies.

* QRX-1011 for Stargardt's disease due to c.5461-10T>C mutations in the ABCA4
gene, which is in optimization phase.

* QRX-504 for Fuchs endothelial corneal dystrophy (FECD), for which a clinical
candidate has been selected and is ready for IND enabling development studies.

About Usher Syndrome

Usher syndrome is the leading cause of combined deafness and blindness. Patients
with this syndrome generally progress to a stage in which they have very limited
central vision and moderate to severe deafness. To date, there are no treatments
approved or products in clinical development that treat the vision loss
associated with the disease. Usher syndrome Type II is one of the most common
forms of Usher syndrome and is caused by mutations in the USH2A gene.

About QRX-411

QRX-411 is a first-in-class RNA-based oligonucleotide designed to address the
underlying cause of Usher syndrome due to the c.7595-2144A>G mutation in the
USH2A gene. The mutation is a substitution of one nucleotide in the pre-mRNA
that leads to aberrant splicing of the mRNA and non-functional or absence of
USH2A protein. QRX-411 is designed to restore wild-type USH2A mRNA leading to
the production of wild-type USH2A protein by binding the mutated pre-mRNA
causing normal splicing of the pre-mRNA.

Source: ProQR Therapeutics

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2017 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              281 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                       June 22, 2017 Thursday 6:30 AM EST

Zogenix Receives Orphan Drug Designation from FDA for ZX008 in Treatment of
Lennox Gastaut Syndrome

LENGTH: 384  words


June 22 -- Zogenix, Inc. (NASDAQ:ZGNX), a pharmaceutical company developing
therapies for the treatment of orphan and central nervous system (CNS)
disorders, today announced the U.S. Food & Drug Administration (FDA) has granted
its investigational drug, ZX008 (low-dose fenfluramine), orphan drug designation
for the treatment of Lennox Gastaut Syndrome (LGS), a refractory, debilitating
childhood-onset epilepsy. The Orphan Drug Designation by the FDA follows the
European Union's granting of Orphan Drug Designation for ZX008 in the treatment
of LGS earlier this year.

"The receipt of Orphan Drug Designation in the treatment of LGS represents
another significant milestone for our ZX008 development program," said Stephen
J. Farr, Ph.D., President and Chief Executive Officer of Zogenix.  "The
Investigational New Drug (IND) Application for our Phase 3 LGS study was
approved to proceed by the FDA in April. We intend to initiate this clinical
trial in the second half of 2017, following the availability of top-line Phase 3
data in our initial indication, Dravet syndrome.  We expect that the first
patients will enroll in the planned LGS study in the fourth quarter of 2017."

Under the U.S. Orphan Drug Act, FDA's Office of Orphan Products Development
grants Orphan Drug Designation to investigational drugs and biologics that are
intended for the treatment of rare diseases that affect fewer than 200,000
people in the U.S. Orphan drug status is intended to facilitate drug development
for rare diseases and may provide several benefits to drug developers, including
assistance with clinical study design and drug development, tax credits for
qualified clinical trials costs, exemptions from certain FDA application fees,
and seven years of market exclusivity upon regulatory product approval.

Zogenix is currently conducting a Phase 3 program in the U.S. and
internationally for ZX008 in Dravet syndrome, another intractable, severe
epilepsy that begins in infancy.  The last patient in Zogenix's first Phase 3
pivotal study was randomized in April 2017, and top-line data are expected in
the third quarter of 2017.  ZX008 for the treatment of Dravet syndrome has
orphan designation in both the U.S. and Europe, and the development program has
received Fast Track designation in the U.S.

Source: Zogenix

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2017 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              282 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                            July 25, 1991, Thursday

Tests on Lincoln's shirt may prove he had rare disease

BYLINE: By Thomson Prentice, Medical Correspondent

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 380 words


THE shirt that Abraham Lincoln wore on the night he was assassinated may help to
confirm that he had a rare disease that made him uncommonly tall.

Tests on bloodstains on the shirt the president wore on that fateful night at
Ford's Theatre in Washington in 1865 could show that he inherited Marfan's
syndrome, a disorder that has now been traced to a specific genetic defect.

In research published today in Nature by American, French and Japanese
scientists, the defect is identified as the probable cause of the syndrome.

The results may be enough to persuade officials of the National Museum of Health
and Medicine in Washington to surrender Lincoln's shirt, together with pieces of
his bone and hair samples, for DNA analysis by experts. The materials are part
of the museum's collection.

Marfan's syndrome, an abnormality of the skeleton, heart and eyes, was not
recognised until 30 years after Lincoln's death, but scientists have for some
time believed that he exemplified Marfan's characteristics of unusual height,
long, thin limbs and large hands and feet, and a gaunt appearance. The
Washington correspondent of The Times during the American civil war described
Lincoln as a ''tall, lank, lean man, considerably over six feet in height, with
stooping shoulders, long pendulous arms terminating in hands of extraordinary
dimensions, which, however, were far exceeded in proportion by his feet''.

Techniques of DNA amplification, combined with the new information on the Marfan
genetic defect, should enable researchers to make a definitive diagnosis in
Lincoln's case.

''The possibility that Lincoln had Marfan's syndrome is a question worth
answering now that the means of doing so are in sight,'' Victor McKusick, an
American geneticist, says in Nature.

The Lincoln connection is bound to draw attention to the syndrome among doctors
and the general public, Dr McKusick says. ''It can do for the disorder what
poliomyelitis in President Roosevelt did for that disease.'' A polio vaccine was
developed in 1955 as a result of research projects initiated by Roosevelt in
1937.

The research in Nature points to the fibrillin gene as the likely source of
Marfan's syndrome. Fibrillin is a connective tissue protein that helps to hold
body structures together.

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1991 Times Newspapers Limited


                              283 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                Skagit Valley Herald (Mount Vernon, Washington)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                           December 24, 2016 Saturday

Family of child with rare disease welcomes holiday cheer

BYLINE: Aaron Weinberg, Skagit Valley Herald, Mount Vernon, Wash.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 612 words


Dec. 24--SEDRO-WOOLLEY -- Seated on a couch Thursday afternoon, 3-year-old Ryder
Belisle held an iPad playing his favorite kids TV show.

"He loves watching Mickey Mouse," said his mother Taci Belisle.

Ryder acts like a normal kid, she said. He enjoys playtime just as much as his
two siblings.

But earlier this year, he was diagnosed with a rare fatal genetic disease called
Sanfilippo syndrome.

The disease, which affects 1 in 70,000, prevents the body from breaking down
cellular waste, according to the Cure Sanfilippo Foundation. That waste builds
up in the body and in the brain, leading to mental deterioration and death.

"It's like the children's form of Alzheimer's," Taci Belisle said.

Since Ryder was diagnosed in April, Taci Belisle quit her job to devote all her
time to Ryder. Her husband, an electrician, now shoulders the financial load.

Taci Belisle's time is spent taking Ryder to various treatments, including
speech, behavioral and occupational therapy.

Because the disease affects so few, it is not well known.

In an effort to get the word out about the disease and to raise money, Taci
Belisle started a social media campaign called #lightsforryder.

She's asking those on social media to send photos or videos of Christmas lights
with the #lightsforryder hashtag or post them to Ryder's Facebook page
facebook.com/cureryder.

"He really enjoys looking at them," Taci Belisle said.

She said she's received about 300 submissions, and there have been some
unexpected surprises along the way.

For instance, employees at Jungle Playland in Mount Vernon drove their Christmas
parade float to the Belisle home earlier this week.

"Ryder jumped on that thing and was just running back and forth all over it,"
Taci Belisle said. "He was shouting and loving it."

This holiday season has been difficult for the family of five, she said, as they
cope with the impacts of Ryder's disease.

His health problems started at birth.

Ryder was born six weeks early along with his twin sister Vera. Vera is
perfectly healthy, Taci Belisle said.

Ryder, on the other hand, spent the first two months of his life in the hospital
because of improperly developed lungs. He outgrew those problems, Taci Belisle
said, but later started to fall behind his sister developmentally.

He was diagnosed with autism, and after developing hearing and vision problems
was diagnosed with Sanfilippo syndrome.

"That was a blow," Taci Belisle said. "You can deal with the other problems, but
not this one."

Since the diagnosis, Taci Belisle has become active in the Cure Sanfilippo
Foundation.

The Belisles were recently involved in a fundraising effort with the
organization, which in September sent climbers to the summit of Mount Rainier to
plant a flag with names of Sanfilippo syndrome patients.

It helped raise awareness and money for research, Taci Belisle said.

Members of the community have reached out to the Belisles.

The Sedro-Woolley Fire Department is planning a ceremony to make Ryder an
honorary firefighter, Taci Belisle said.

Moving forward, Taci Belisle said she will continue to help raise money for
Sanfilippo research. Her family has created a nonprofit to help them accomplish
that.

She's also hoping to get Ryder into clinical trials for gene therapy treatment.

Her first attempts at getting him into clinical trials failed. But Taci Belisle
is not giving up.

"We'll try to raise money to get more trials opened up," she said.

-- Reporter Aaron Weinberg: 360-416-2145, aweinberg@skagitpublishing.com,
Facebook.com/byaaronweinberg

___ (c)2016 the Skagit Valley Herald (Mount Vernon, Wash.) Visit the Skagit
Valley Herald (Mount Vernon, Wash.) at www.goskagit.com Distributed by Tribune
Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20161224-UV-Family-of-child-with-rare-disease
-welcomes-holiday-cheer-1224-20161224

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: UV


                      Copyright 2016 Skagit Valley Herald


                              284 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                            August 30, 2016 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

'Our little Matty is bubbly and loves going to school and mixing with other
kids'

BYLINE: an uji Varma

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 562 words


A WALSALL schoolgirl who is one of an estimated 20 people in the WORLD to suffer
from a rare disease has become the face of a hospital fundraising campaign.

Matilda Hatton, aged seven, has Sensenbrenner Syndrome, but she wasn't diagnosed
until she was three years old because doctors were baffled by her symptoms.

The disease means she has morphic facial features, shorter limbs and grows at a
slower rate than other children. She was born with only 30 per cent kidney
function and her liver was also abnormal.

Over the years she has had a kidney transplant, and been fed via a tube because
she struggles to swallow food. Little is known about the condition.

Her parents Les, 57, and Michelle, 38, who is Matilda's full-time carer, know of
only one other sufferer - in Canada.

Les, who is also a carer for his nephew, said: "We'd been warned not to look on
the internet, but we did. We've read so many horror stories, but we've had to
try and ignore them. It's so important to think positively.

"During that time when they didn't know what was wrong with her, we were just
living each day as it went.

"The doctors just didn't know what was going to happen with her and they thought
she would be on dialysis soon after her birth because of her kidney function.

"Yet she didn't need dialysis until she was four years old, and then two years
later she had her transplant.

"We thought she'd be able to eat solid food afterwards, but she still doesn't.
She tends to put things in her mouth, chew it and then take it out.

"She does the same with sweets and chocolates."

Days after Matilda was born she was rushed from Stafford Hospital to Birmingham
Children's Hospital, where she has received treatment and has been monitored
ever since.

It was there that doctors finally told Les and Michelle that they believed their
daughter had Sensenbrenner Syndrome. They were told there were only around 20
sufferers recorded since 1975.

Michelle added: "A woman from Canada messaged us one evening to say her child
also had Sensenbrenner Syndrome.

"It was such a relief to hear there was someone else out there.

"Her little girl looks the spitting image of Matty. They were told she wouldn't
survive and there was nothing that could be done.

"I think it gave them hope and reassured them that they weren't alone.

"Our little Matty is bubbly and active and she doesn't let her illness get in
the way of things. She loves going to school, and mixes with all the other kids.
She puts up a front fighting off any tiredness she gets from the condition. But
it does eventually takes its' toll."

Now Matilda is part of the Star Appeal by Birmingham Children's Hospital, which
is aiming to raise £3.65 million to fund a rare diseases centre at the site.

Her picture will go up in Victoria Square along with 11 other youngsters who are
also suffering from a wide range of uncommon conditions next month as part of a
fundraising exhibition.

For Matilda's family, a new Rare Diseases Centre would be incredible.

It would help them to "navigate the healthcare system" and find the answers,
information and medical developments they have been searching for all of
Matilda's life.

"It will less time spent in hospital, which is great as we will have more time
to live a normal life."

¦To donate to the appeal log onto
http://campaign.justgiving.com/charity/bchch/starsofsteelhouselane. Or text
"rare" to 70020 (to give £3).

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BMM


               Copyright 2016 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved


                              285 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                 Bath Chronicle

                           January 13, 2016 Wednesday

'Will I be allowed to get life-saving drug?'

SECTION: NEWS:HEALTH; Pg. 18-19

LENGTH: 477  words


A Bath woman who suffers from a rare disease is grateful that a life-saving drug
has been funded by the Government - but worries that she will not be eligible to
receive it.

Sarah Long, 44, who is thought to be one of the oldest sufferers of Morquio
Syndrome, spent last year fighting for Vimizim to be funded after her life was
turned around by a free trial of the drug.

The drug, also referred to as elosulfase alfa, is now available on the NHS for
people with the condition following a final decision by the National Institute
for Health and Care Excellence (Nice).

Sarah, who is currently being provided the drug by the manufacturer on
compassionate grounds, said: "It's fantastic news, but there's a caveat."

To get the drug on the NHS, patients have to show they have a proven medical
response to it by meeting five criteria set by the Government, she said.

"It's exciting, but I won't know till the end of January if I'm included in
that. It's quite a worry for me whether I'm going to meet the criteria," Sarah
said.

Sarah believes that, because of the natural progression of the disease, it will
be more difficult for adults than children to show they meet the criteria set
out in the Government's "managed access agreement".

"It will be interesting to see how that plays out," she said.

Life sciences minister George Freeman, who worked with NHS England and the
drug's manufacturer BioMarin to expedite the decision over Vimizim, said the
criteria were part of the agreement to fund the drug.

"Drugs for rare diseases such as Morquio syndrome are often very expensive and
need to be funded from an inevitably finite budget which must also fund other
patients and conditions," Mr Freeman said in a letter confirming the decision.

"Crucial to this process was the willingness of BioMarin to work with NHS
England in order to reach a deal that allows patients to access this drug
through a managed access agreement."

Bath MP Ben Howlett, who took up Sarah's fight in Parliament, said he hoped that
future decisions on the funding of drugs for rare diseases would be made more
quickly than that over Vimizim.

Mr Howlett said: "I am delighted that Nice have reached this decision, although
disappointed at the length of time and distress it has taken to patients
awaiting the outcome.

"I hope that moving forward we will be able to find a solution to ensure
decisions of this nature can be taken more rapidly.

"It is clearly difficult to balance expensive treatments for a small number of
people from a finite pot of money, but in this instance the science did seem to
win the argument."

Morquio Syndrome is a disease that affects the major organ systems in the body
and people with it lack a certain enzyme. Symptoms usually appear in early
childhood and worsen over time. Most people with the disease die in their teens
because of complications with their heart or lungs.

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Sarah Long is waiting to learn if she qualifies for a life-saving drug

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2016 Localworld
                              All Rights Reserved


                              286 of 997 DOCUMENTS

              Copyright 2017 GlobalData Ltd., All Rights Reserved
                              GlobalData - Events

                                August 27, 2017

                                    Naia Ltd

                               2600 Hilltop Drive
                                 Richmond 94806
                                 United States

* * * * * * * * * * EVENTS * * * * * * * * * *


Naia Rare Diseases Appoints Professor Palle Bekker Jeppesen to Its Scientific
Advisory Board

   Jan 26, 2016

   Naia Limited, an international drug development company today announced that
its subsidiary, Naia Rare Diseases, has appointed Professor Palle Bekker
Jeppesen, MD, Head of Research at the Department of Gastroenterology,
Rigshospitalet, Copenhagen, to its Scientific Advisory Board.Professor Jeppesen
is a recognized expert in the treatment of Short Bowel Syndrome (SBS) and has
been a leading researcher developing new therapeutic approaches for the disease.
He was the principal investigator in the clinical studies that led to the
approval of teduglutide (GattexÂ®), to date the only FDA-approved product for
SBS.Professor Jeppesen joins current Scientific Advisory Board members, Mark
Pimentel, MD, FRCPC, professor of medicine and director of the gastrointestinal
motility program and laboratory at Cedars-Sinai, Mark DeLegge, MD, professor of
medicine at the Medical University of South Carolina, John DiBaise, MD,
professor of medicine at Mayo Clinic, Scottsdale, Arizona, Stuart Kaufman, MD,
professor of pediatrics and medical director, pediatric transplantation,
Georgetown Medical Center and Farooq Rahman, BSc, Ph.D., FRCP, consultant
gastroenterologist & lead physician for intestinal failure, University College
Hospital, London. "We are excited that Professor Jeppesen has agreed to join
Naia Rare Diseases Scientific Advisory Board," said H. Daniel Perez, M.D.,
co-founder, chairman and chief executive officer of Naia Limited. "He is an
acknowledged expert in the treatment of SBS and his addition to our already
distinguished board is a testament to the importance of what we are doing." Naia
Rare Diseases is developing therapeutics for SBS and other rare gastrointestinal
diseases. The company intends to file an IND for its lead program, NB 1001 in
the second quarter of 2016, and will conduct a Phase 1b open label, single dose,
dose de-escalation study in adult SBS patients in the second half of 2016. The
company believes that a single Phase 2/3 study will be required for product
approval. "I am very happy to join such a group of distinguished colleagues on
the Naia Scientific Advisory Board," said Professor Jeppesen. "I believe Naia is
working on potentially significant treatments for SBS and I look forward to
working with Naia to bring these therapies to SBS patients in need." Professor
Palle Bekker Jeppesen is the Head of Research at the Department of
Gastroenterology at Rigshospitalet in Copenhagen, Denmark. He is also an
Affiliate Professor in the Department of Nutrition, Exercise and Sports at the
unit for Clinical and Experimental Nutrition, University of Copenhagen. His
major research interests include patients with short bowel syndrome and
intestinal failure with a recent focus on novel therapies for their management,
rehabilitation and care. He was principal investigator in the international,
multicenter, phase 2 and 3 program, which led to approval of the drug
teduglutide by the FDA and EMA to treat SBS. Professor Jeppesen graduated in
medicine from the University of Copenhagen, Denmark, in 1989 and completed his
residency in medical gastroenterology at the Rigshospitalet in Copenhagen. He
completed his PhD thesis, entitled The significance of the fatty acid
chain-length for the clinical effect in the enteral and parenteral nutrition in
patients with malabsorption in 1998 and his Doctor's Degree, entitled Intestinal
insufficiency and failure, in 2003. About NB 1001 NB 1001 is a proprietary
long-acting version of the GLP-1 agonist, exenatide, developed specifically to
treat SBS. Licensed from Amunix Operating Inc., NB 1001 uses Amunix's
proprietary "XTEN" technology to extend the half-life of the GLP-1 peptide and
allows for up to once-per-month dosing, thus considerably increasing convenience
for patients and caregivers. Because of lower overall exposure and dose required
(as a replacement therapy) NB 1001 will have an increased safety window compared
to other GLP-1 agonists, important as SBS patients are a very fragile
population. Exenatide, has been studied in patients with SBS by Dr. Pimentel and
demonstrated efficacy by slowing gastric contractions as well as bowel movements
and improving nutritional status leading to discontinuation of parenteral
nutrition. NB 1001 was previously developed to treat type 2 diabetes and in a 70
patient clinical study demonstrated efficacy with no observed side effects.


Naia Rare Diseases a subsidiary of Naia Limited, Forms Scientific Advisory Board
Comprised of Internationally Renowned Experts and Scientists

   Jan 07, 2016

   Naia Limited, an international drug development company announced that its
subsidiary, Naia Rare Diseases, has formed a Scientific Advisory Board (SAB)
comprised of internationally renowned experts and scientists in gastrointestinal
diseases, particularly Short Bowel Syndrome (SBS).Mark Pimentel, MD, FRCPC,
member of Naia's board of scientific and clinical advisors and director of the
gastrointestinal motility program and laboratory at Cedars-Sinai, is joined by
Mark DeLegge, MD, professor of medicine at the Medical University of South
Carolina, John DiBaise, MD, professor of medicine at Mayo Clinic, Scottsdale,
Arizona, Stuart Kaufman, MD, medical director, pediatric transplantation,
Georgetown Medical Center and Farooq Rahman, BSc, Ph.D., FRCP, consultant
gastroenterologist & lead physician for intestinal failure, University College
Hospital, London. Naia also appointed Andrew Jablonski, CEO, Short Bowel
Syndrome Foundation, advisor for patient and physician relations."The high
caliber of Naia Rare Diseases' SAB is a clear indication of the great potential
of our rare diseases platform," said H. Daniel Perez, M.D., co-founder, chairman
and chief executive officer of Naia Limited. "This advisory group has the skills
and experience to provide us with the necessary guidance to rapidly advance our
drug candidates through clinical testing and bringing them to market. Naia Rare
Diseases is developing drugs for SBS and other rare gastrointestinal diseases.
The company intends to file an IND for its lead program, NB 1001 in the second
quarter of 2016, and will conduct a Phase 1b open label, single dose, dose
de-escalation study in adult SBS patients in the second half of 2016. The
company believes that a single Phase 2/3 study will be required for product
approval. "I am very happy that such distinguished colleagues have agreed to
join me on the Naia Scientific Advisory Board," said Dr. Pimentel. "Their
dedication and expertise in treating patients with SBS is reflected by the large
number of patients they treat and their large referral base. I look forward to
working with them to bring new and promising therapies to SBS patients in need."
"We would also like to welcome our new advisor of patient and physician
relations, Mr. Andrew Jablonski," said Dr. Perez. "Mr. Jablonski will be
critical in our efforts to enhance Naia's interactions with SBS patients.
Understanding their needs and concerns is paramount for the successful
development of our SBS treatment, NB 1001." "Naia is developing very promising
and innovative treatments for SBS," said Andrew Jablonski, "As an SBS patient
and an SBS patient advocate, I applaud the focus on the potential for reducing
and even eliminating the need for parenteral nutrition."


Naia Appoints Three World-Class Business and Healthcare Thought Leaders to Its
Business Advisory Board

   Mar 30, 2015

   Naia Limited, an international drug development company with an initial
portfolio of innovative, clinical stage compounds for short bowel syndrome, NASH
and Type 2 diabetes, announced three additions to its business advisory
board.The new members are Edmund Pezalla, M.D., MPH, vice president and national
medical director for pharmaceutical policy and strategy at Aetna, Hoyoung Huh,
M.D., Ph.D., chairman of the board of directors of Geron Corporation and Cytomx
Therapeutics, Inc., and Lord Edward (Tim) Razzall, Commander of the Order of the
British Empire (CBE), partner at RT Associates, and leading member of the
Liberal-Democratic Party (U.K.).The three new business advisory board members
have joined existing members, Jorge Puente, M.D., chairman of Naia's business
advisory board, co-founder and managing partner at Pleasanton Pharma Ventures,
and prior regional president, Asia Pacific and Canada, of Pfizer's Oncology
Business Unit, and Robert Williamson, CEO of PharmAkea and prior board member of
Pharmasset. The company's business advisory board plays a central role in Naia's
strategy and differentiation as its five board members are diverse, high-profile
individuals whose expertise and backgrounds actively guide Naia's strategy and
operating philosophy. "We welcome Drs. Pezalla and Huh and Lord Razzall to our
business advisory board," said Dr. Puente. "The fact that these distinguished
individuals with differing domain experiences and insights decided to join our
board, underscores the differentiation and appeal of Naia's business model.
Under the leadership of an experienced management team, Naia is quickly building
a strong portfolio of exciting therapeutic products." H. Daniel Perez, M.D.,
co-founder, chairman and chief executive officer of Naia Limited, said, "These
three business leaders share Naia's objective of deploying an innovative and
differentiated business model that addresses unmet medical needs in a
capital-efficient manner. With their guidance and individual perspectives on
global healthcare challenges and opportunities, Naia will accelerate the
development of its innovative portfolio. We are committed to achieving our
business objectives, growing our subsidiaries, expanding our partnerships and
increasing value for our stakeholders." Naia's diverse portfolio of therapeutics
address regional and global unmet medical needs in various markets with an
initial focus on rare and metabolic diseases. The company has in-licensing
agreements with Amunix Operating Inc. for its GLP-1 and GLP-2 XTENâ¢ receptor
agonist product candidates and a licensing agreement with Cedars-Sinai Medical
Center in Los Angeles for a use patent for GLP-1. Dr. Pezalla is a national and
international public policy, public affairs and healthcare innovations leader
with a unique understanding and perspective of patient, payer, health system
provider and government needs. He is active in helping inform and shape systems
and policy frameworks in the U.S. through his activities at The
Brookings/Engelberg Center, as an invited expert on reform of drug approval
regulations for the President's Council of Advisors on Science and Technology
(PCAST) and as a planning board member for recommendations for the National
Medical Device Surveillance System. He is currently vice president and national
medical director for pharmaceutical policy and strategy at Aetna. He reports
directly to the chief medical officer for the integration of pharmacy policy and
activities into Aetna's overall strategy and operations. Dr. Pezalla also serves
as the lead clinical spokesperson for Aetna in pharmacy-related issues and
represents Aetna on industry work groups and conferences. Previously, Dr.
Pezalla was acting chief medical officer for Aetna's operations in Doha, Qatar,
where he managed the Qatari National Health Insurance scheme. He also served as
chief clinical officer for Aetna Pharmacy Management. Prior to Aetna, he was
vice president of clinical services for Prescription Solutions, a wholly-owned
pharmacy benefits management subsidiary of United Health. Dr. Pezalla received
his medical and undergraduate degrees from Georgetown University. He holds an
MPH from the University of California at Berkeley. Dr. Huh is a distinguished
thought leader in the healthcare industry with extensive experience in
international markets and inter-country business transactions. He is currently
chairman of the board of Geron Corporation and Cytomx Therapeutics, as well as a
director of ADDEX Pharmaceuticals and AntriaBio, Inc. Previously, he was
chairman of the board of directors of BiPar Sciences, Inc., a wholly-owned
subsidiary of Sanofi-Aventis, and also served as its president and CEO.
Additionally, Dr. Huh serves on the boards of directors of several
privately-held companies. He held several senior positions at Nektar
Therapeutics, including chief operating officer and senior vice president of
business development and marketing. Prior to Nektar, Dr. Huh was a partner at
McKinsey & Company where he was in the biotechnology and biopharmaceutical
sectors. Prior to McKinsey, he was a physician and researcher at Cornell
University Medical College and Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. Dr. Huh
holds an A.B. in biochemistry from Dartmouth College and an M.D. and a Ph.D. in
genetics and cell biology from Cornell University Medical College and
Sloan-Kettering Institute. Lord Razzall, CBE, a solicitor in the U.K., has more
than 35 years of corporate finance experience, particularly in multinational and
cross border transactions. He is currently a partner at RT Associates, a
business advisory firm for growth companies in a variety of industries including
healthcare. He is also chairman of the payment systems provider Boxhill
Technologies PLC and director of the finance company Just Loans PLC. Lord
Razzall has had a long political career in the U.K. Currently, he is the
co-chairman of the Parliamentary Committee for Treasury matters. Previously, he
held the post of Liberal Democrat Spokesperson for Trade and Industry/Business,
Enterprise and Regulatory Reform. He was treasurer of the Liberal/Liberal
Democratic Party after which he chaired the Liberal Democrats General Election
Campaigns of 2001 and 2005. Earlier in his career, he served as partner and
chief executive at Frere Cholmeley Bischcoff.
* * * * * * * * * * OTHER AVAILABLE REPORTS * * * * * * * * * *
Company Investment Analysis             Company Overview
Events                                  Investments
Key Employees                           Key Facts
Locations and Subsidiaries              Major Products and Services
Top Competitors

 * * * * * * * * * * NOTE * * * * * * * * * *

   GlobalData uses a range of research techniques to gather and verify its
information and analysis. These include primary research, in-house knowledge and
expertise, proprietary databases, and secondary sources such as company
websites, annual reports, SEC filings and press releases. Disclaimer: No part of
this publication may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system or transmitted
in any form by any means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording or
otherwise, without the prior permission of the publisher, GlobalData. The facts
of this report are believed to be correct at the time of publication but cannot
be guaranteed. Please note that the findings, conclusions and recommendations
that GlobalData delivers will be based on information gathered in good faith
from both primary and secondary sources, whose accuracy we are not always in a
position to guarantee. As such GlobalData can accept no liability whatever for
actions taken based on any information that may subsequently prove to be
incorrect.

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2017


                              287 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                        The Balochistan Times (AsiaNet)

                            March 9, 2016 Wednesday

Genetic, Metabolic, Chromosomal disorders amongst children be discussed in
Conference

SECTION: Vol. 39 No. 69

LENGTH: 313  words


Inborn errors of metabolism are inherited disorders, transmitted from parents to
off-springs and lead to mental retardation, impaired quality of life, expiries
at early age and many other complications.

In countries like ours where inter family marriages are very common, these
disorders are expected to occur at a much frequent rate than western countries.
In Saudi Arabia the incidence rate is approximately 1 child out of every 2236
and in India 1 child every 297 out of newborns. Unfortunately in Pakistan, due
to lack of awareness in our population, much population based data is not
available.

Dow University of Health Sciences (DUHS) in collaboration with Department of
Pediatric, Civil Hospital Karachi (CHK) and Pakistan Pediatric Association (PPA)
is organizing a 2-days National Conference on Rare Diseases Day to give
awareness about Genetic, Metabolic and Chromosomal disorders amongst the doctors
and general practitioners. The Conference is going to be held from 11th and 12th
March 2016 at DMC, Kaachi.

In the Conference, rare diseases including genetic, metabolic and chromosomal
disorders in children will be discussed. Thalassemia will also be discussed
which is a major health issue in among Pakistani children and it is estimated
that approx. 5000 children are diagnosed each year with thalassemia. It is the
most prevalent genetically transmitted blood disorder in our region. Among
chromosomal disorders, downs syndrome is the most common one.

WHO estimates the incidence of Down syndrome to be one out of 1,000-1,100 live
births worldwide. Incidence rate in Pakistan is estimated to be 1 in every 800
children. This Conference will provide a platform to doctors and health care
providers to update their knowledge on these diseases. Renewed Pediatricians and
Neonatologists will be showcasing their research regarding inborn and metabolic
disorders in Children.

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 The Balochistan Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              288 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                             March 28, 2014 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

living statue;
RARE DISEASE TURNING DAD INTO.. ; Robert's stiff syndrome agony

BYLINE: JAY WILLIAMS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 41

LENGTH: 198 words


A DAD fears he's slowly turning into a living statue after contracting a rare
disease called stiff person syndrome.

Robert McKechnie's crippling condition is so unusual it took docs TWO YEARS to
diagnose it.

The illness, which has no cure and affects just one in a million, causes
victims' limbs to go into agonising spasms.

Five months after it hit healthy Robert, 55, of Paisley, he had to start using a
walking stick in November 2012. He shifted to crutches in January and expects to
be in a wheelchair in months.

The former chef said: "I used to be so active. Now I stand up and feel all the
muscles tighten in my legs." Experts believe it's sparked by abnormal antibodies
attacking the spinal cord. Robert will have a plasma exchange in a bid to 'wash'
them out.

Hugh Willison, Professor of Neurology at Glasgow Uni, said: "A person can go as
rigid as a block of wood."

scottish-sun@thesun.co.uk

has just will exchange 'wash' as

A rare disorder caused when victims attacked by own immune system Muscles in
body steadily become rigid and stiffen Sufferers can end up too disabled to walk
or move WHAT iS STIFF PERSON SYNDROME? Victims' spasms can be sparked by sudden
noise or any emotional stress

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Misery ... healthy Robert, right, &now on crutches

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUNscot


                    Copyright 2014 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved


                              289 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 3, 2003 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Virtual World of Support for Real World Woes

BYLINE:  By DAVID TULLER

SECTION: Section F; Column 3; Health & Fitness; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1177 words


Shannon Pierce was distraught three years ago when she learned that herbaby,
Caroline, had Pierre Robin syndrome, a rare congenital disorder. In her
desperate search for information, Ms. Pierce latched onto an increasingly common
option for people grappling with little-known diseases, an online support group.

Children with Pierre Robin syndrome are born with facial deformities like
abnormally small lower jaws and cleft palates that can hinder eating and
breathing. When Caroline had a tracheotomy and surgery to repair her palate, Ms.
Pierce's new friends from the Pierre Robin Network Web site,
www.pierrerobin.org, eagerly advised her on the procedures, the length of
recovery and ways to change the tracheotomy tube at home.

"I'm online daily, corresponding with a few of the other moms," said Ms. Pierce,
who lives near Atlanta. "It's been so important. I'm a nurse, and I'd never
heard of this. The hospital only gave us so much information. Everything we've
gotten has been from the Internet."

According to the National Institutes of Health's Office of Rare Diseases, there
are about 6,000 ailments that afflict 200,000 or fewer Americans. Some like
Crohn's disease, cystic fibrosis, Huntington's disease and Tourette's syndrome
are relatively well known. Others, especially those with just handfuls of cases,
remain obscure even to medical specialists.

Now, instead of needing to expend huge amounts of time, energy and money to find
information about rare diseases, the sufferers and their relatives can turn to
the Internet, which has drastically changed their landscape in just a few years.

"If you've got cancer or arthritis, you can probably find a support group that
meets locally in a church basement," said Abbey Meyers, who is the president of
the National Organization for Rare Disorders (www.rarediseases.org) in Danbury,
Conn. "But if you have a rare disorder, you can feel very isolated. If you get
into a chat room, you're suddenly communicating with people all over the world
who have the same disease."

That desire for contact was what drove David Hughes of Plano, Tex., to teach
himself the coding to produce Web pages. Mr. Hughes is the father of two young
boys with X-linked alpha-thalassemia mental retardation syndrome.

With his new skills, Mr. Hughes established a Web site for the disorder in 1999
and started an online support group that has 36 families.

When he realized that many individuals and families coping with other unusual
ailments lacked similar support, he created the International Rare Disease
Support Network (www.raredisorders.com), which links people to more than 1,000
online groups for specific disorders.

Mr. Hughes's sons, Barak, 9, and Zechariah, 7, have severe physical and mental
disabilities. Although children like his can bond with others and laugh easily,
Mr. Hughes said, they do not generally learn how to speak.

"Most of them can't communicate," Mr. Hughes said. "They can't tell you when
they hurt. There are all kinds of sleeping and eating problems, problems with
the school districts and with doctors. What's good about a support group on the
Internet is you get to share your frustration with people who know exactly what
you're talking about, and you can do it at any time, 24 hours a day."

The Internet has been vital in other ways, too. Because only a small part of
government and other research funds are spent on disorders that affect few
people, patients' advocates use the Web sites to raise money, lobby officials
and drive the research agenda for the particular illnesses, all at a small
fraction of the cost of printing and mailing letters and brochures.

"The Internet," said Dr. Vicki Ratner, an orthopedic surgeon and the founder of
the Interstitial Cystitis Association, "has been crucial in terms of
disseminating information not only to the public, but to the medical community,
as well."

Dr. Ratner established her group after learning 20 years ago that she had the
disease, an inflammation of the bladder wall that affects mostly women. It can
cause excruciating pain and a constant sensation of having to urinate, but
treatment options are limited. Modifying the diet by eliminating possible
irritants like coffee, alcohol and spicy foods is often the most effective
approach.

In addition to a list of support groups, the association's Web site,
www.ichelp.com, includes reports from scientific conferences; information on
clinical trials; articles on coping with the disease; summaries of studies in
peer-review journals; profiles of patients and interviews with them; online
surveys, including a current one on how it affects sexual activity; recipes for
restricted diets; and unusual but useful tips like ways to grow low-acid
tomatoes and where to buy the seeds.

Some Internet sites were created solely to harness technology in the search for
medical help.

In 1999, Phil and Tricia Milto learned that their son Nathan, who was then 4,
had late infantile Batten disease, an extremely rare genetic syndrome that leads
to blindness, mental deterioration, the loss of motor skills and, ultimately,
death. In his effort to learn more, Mr. Milto scanned all of his son's medical
records online and sent them using mass e-mail messages to hundreds of doctors
and scientists.

"Early on, I recognized that this was a vehicle that enabled us to get to people
that I couldn't have gotten on the phone," said Mr. Milto, who owns a dry
cleaning business in Greenwood, Ind. "It's difficult for someone to talk to the
parent of a sick kid. So they're more likely to respond if they can e-mail you
at 2 in the morning."

The Miltos, whose youngest son, P. J., also has the disease, formed the Nathan's
Battle Foundation and worked on the organization's Web site,
www.nathansbattle.com, to plan scientific gatherings, promote promising
treatment possibilities and raise money for gene therapy and stem cell research.

"I'm just a parent trying to do the best for my kids," said Mr. Milto.

Even though the Internet improves communication among people who might face
their problems alone, it can have drawbacks. Yet many of the people who rely on
it also seem to recognize its limits. Acknowledging the problem of irresponsible
postings, for example, Dr. Ratner said she would not post medical information
that had not been screened and approved.

The wealth of online information can also lead to faulty diagnoses, said Hollie
L. Swain, founder and president of the Association for Glycogen Storage Disease
in Durant, Iowa. The symptoms of glycogen storage disease, a hereditary illness
that involves the inability to metabolize sugars properly, can vary widely and
may mimic other disorders, Ms. Swain said. Some visitors to the group's Web
site, www.agsdus.org, read about it and come to the wrong conclusions, she said.

"I'll get people who will say, 'I think I have this,' " added Ms. Swain, a court
clerk in Durant whose adult son has the disorder. "These are people who haven't
felt well, and they're perusing whatever kind of diseases may be out there.
They're looking for something to have."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: David Hughes with his wife, Linda, and their sons, Zechariah,
left, and Barak, whose rare disorder is the focus of an Internet support group.
(Matt Rourke for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              290 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             March 15, 2010 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

'They said it was just something kids get. Then she nearly died';
Poor awareness of rare diseases is risking lives, according to the ChiefMedical
Officer's annual report, Sam Lister writes

BYLINE: Sam Lister

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14,15

LENGTH: 1741 words


The first time Katy Frost stayed away from her family was a trip that they will
never forget. It was not the visit to the Isle of Wight that madeit memorable,
nor the adventure holiday with her classmates - but the sudden illnesses that
almost killed her.

Katy discovered during the trip, in the summer of 2005, that she was one of more
than three million Britons who suffer from some kind of rare disease -
conditions that, too often, are not identified until the patient is in critical
care or even dead.

In his annual report Sir Liam Donaldson, the Chief Medical Officer, will warn
today of the alarming lack of awareness and effective services for rare
diseases. It will highlight how children are dying needlessly, having lived for
years with undiagnosed or misdiagnosed conditions.

Speaking to The Times, Sir Liam, who steps down in May after 12 years in his
post, said that there was an urgent need for more understanding and funding of
more than 6,000 rare diseases. Defined as occurring in fewer than five in every
10,000 people, the conditions are usually chronic and often start in childhood.
They include neurological and metabolic disorders, cancers, muscle diseases and
heart defects.

"These are the Cinderella conditions," Sir Liam told The Times. "This is about
patchy and fragmented services, poor co-ordination and lack of clinical
awareness about the diagnosis. It's not just poverty of access, but poverty of
visibility and representation."

For Katy, now 14, the lack of awareness of MCADD- medium chain acyl CoA
dehydrogenase deficiency, but known as "em-cad"-proved almost fatal. As a child
she had been prone to bouts of sickness - a mix of nausea, drowsiness and asthma
- but they had never derailed her for too long. The family's GP put it down to
an oversensitivity possibly linked to general development, "something that kids
normally grow out of". The consultants thought likewise on her visits to
hospital: that this was an irritation rather than anything life-threatening, and
to be monitored "to see how things go".

Then she went away on the end-of-term holiday and things went very badly, very
quickly. Her first night away from home, that July, was uneventful, although she
hadn't liked the food. By the second day she had eaten less and become
increasingly drowsy. A first-aider was called, then a doctor, then an ambulance.
She appeared to be slowly losing consciousness.

She was rushed back to the mainland where paediatric and emergency medicine
consultants at Southampton General Hospital frantically tried to work out what
was happening. Was it severe dehydration? An infection? Possibly meningitis?
They telephoned experts at Great Ormond Street Hospital and other specialists
for further advice as Katy began to suffer multiple organ failure.

"It was the anxiety of trying to piece together how this might relate to any of
the problems she had suffered in the past," says her mother, Cora Durkan, who is
an intensive-care administrator.

"And all the time she was getting worse and worse."

Katy's mother, father and her aunt had arrived shortly after her, at about 11pm,
to be told she was being stabilised. A short time later the nurse ran to call
them to her bedside. "We ran in and they were doing electric shocks to her
heart," Ms Durkan said. "They did 14 in all. Her organs were shutting down - her
kidneys, her heart - to try to protect her brain. Then that started swelling,
her eyes had gone. It was just kneebuckling. She was dying in front of us."

And then Katy, pumped with a small armoury of drugs and connected to half a
dozen pieces of machinery, began responding. She started to stabilise, her blood
pressure and heart function improved, a blood transfusion took pressure off her
kidneys and sedation was reduced.

Neither she nor her mother would return home to Haywards Heath, West
Sussex-where there was to be further comprehensive hospital care - for another
two months. "It was very scary and I was always moody," Katy recalls. "I didn't
know what was going on and what this MCADDwas. It was more easy to be moody than
scared."

She would not see a classroom for a further six months, as she recovered from
the damage to her system that she had sustained. She and her family also found
themselves on a crash course in the intricacies of MCADD.

They learnt how, during long periods between eating, the body breaks down its
fat stores to produce energy- and how Katy's genetic kink meant she lacked one
of the enzymes needed to do this. Unable to get energy from fat, sufferers rely
on glucose-but when they do not eat regularly the drowsiness will set in. The
build up of fats can become toxic, causing nausea and diarrhoea.

Control of the condition is straightforward: dietary monitoring and regular
meals, and glucose drinks if the person falls ill. But when undiagnosed, the
risks of MCADD are complications such as seizures, breathing difficulties and
even coma or sudden death, as has too often been the case in young sufferers
over the years.

As of last year, all newborn babies can have an MCADD blood spot test, alerting
parents to the risk and preventing unnecessary deaths. Four other conditions-
cystic fibrosis, sickle-cell anaemia, phenylketonuria and hypothyroidism-are
also covered. But for most rare diseases no such test is available.

Sir Liam's recommendations will include a national clinical director for rare
diseases to oversee the development of clear standards and approaches to
treatment, particularly to address problems encountered by sufferers moving from
child to adult services. He will also propose national registers, to improve
surveillance, planning and research.

The report will also highlight the need for more translational research-studies
that get from the laboratory to the patient, such as the lab work onMCADDthat
has become the effective blood test-with economic incentives to encourage
pharmaceutical companies to develop medicines that will never be purchased in
large quantities. Carol Dezateux, of the Institute of Child Health, University
College London, said that while rare diseases varied, most were chronic and
incurable and caused a deterioration of health.

Information could be hard to get, and the average GP may have never encountered
the particular condition when a patient turned up, Professor Dezateux added. The
doctors will, appropriately, think of the obvious possible causes, but then hit
a block.

"It is logical that you think of the common illnesses first. But I do feel that
there's an issue about getting a timely diagnosis: there's a problem when you
don't consider rare diseases when the other things have been discounted. It is
quite challenging."

Almost half of people with a rare disease have difficulty in getting a correct
diagnosis, often because of poor access to specialists, research suggests. The
European Organisation for Rare Diseases found that more than a third of cases of
Duchenne muscular dystrophy are initially misdiagnosed and almost 40 per cent of
cases of Fragile X syndrome, where a gene on the X chromosome responsible for
brain development is faulty, causing mental retardation. One in three cases of
Prader Willi syndrome, a chromosomal disorder with symptoms that include
learning difficulties, obesity and behavioural problems, is also likely to be
misdiagnosed.

The repeated NHS visits made by Ms Durkan and Katy may have posed questions, but
no one could link the pieces. "She always seemed to pick up after an ice lolly,"
MsDurkan said. "Butwedidn't understand the relevance."

Some children were not as lucky as Katy, as studies by Professor Dezateux
showed. "They were not even making it into intensive care. They were slipping
into acute illnesses which could come on at night and parents would find them
dead in the morning. It was tragic."

She said that for rare diseases where early identification can prevent
irreversible damage, screening is vital, but future advances in testing needed
to be weighed carefully. "If you are a parent being told that your healthy baby
has a condition that could occur in 15 years, and which you can't do anything
about, it can overshadow many years that could otherwise have been happy."

For other conditions, noticing symptoms and access to treatment will remain the
priority, with an accurate collation of case information in national registers.
"One of the sad things is we often cannot reliably tell families what to
expect," Professor Dezateux said. "They ask, 'Will my child be able to go to
school, will they be able to have a family, how long will they live?'. Disease
registers can help provide parents with this very valuable information."

For Katy Frost, the traumatic diagnosis of a rare disease has been overcome. She
is back at school, studying for GCSEs and is fond of fashion design. She keeps a
close eye on her condition, and when feeling ill knows to get the
glucose-normally a Ribena from the fridge.

Soon the teenager will travel to Birmingham on only her second school trip-and
her second stay away from home. She admits to being "a bit apprehensive" after
the first experience. "But it's a lot more reassuring to know that its happened,
and what MCADD is, because if it hadn't it could have happened this time," she
says.

The destination is also of comfort: "We are going to Cadbury's World, so I am
not going to be too far from food if I need it."

" It was very scary. I didn't know what was going on. I was always moody

There are more than 6,000 rare conditions affecting up to 3.5m Britons. A rare
disease is defined as affecting fewer than five in every 10,000 people Rare
conditions Including: congenital adrenal hyperplasia Disorders of the glands
Affects 5,000 people Including: familial adenomatous polyposis of the colon and
Costello syndrome Affects 3,000 people Cancers Including: phenylketonuria and
MCADD Affects 20,000 people Metabolic conditions Cancer Heart disease
Alzheimer's dementia Diabetes Rare diseases Research funding (2008-09)
Including: Rett syndrome, neurofibromatosis, cavernous angioma and inherited
ataxia Including: Duchenne muscular dystrophy Affects 45,000 people Affects
70,000 people Neurological conditions Severe congenital heart defects Affects
21,000 people Including: tetralogy of Fallot and transposition of the great
arteries Muscle diseases Total Number of Spend per spend people affected
sufferer £370m 2m £75.2m 2.6m £5.2m 420,000 £7m 2.6m £3.6m 3.5m Sources: Sir
Liam Donaldson; Times archives £185 £12 £29 £3 £1

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Katy Frost with her mother. Four years ago the nausea, drowsiness and
asthma from which Katy had occasionally suffered was diagnosed as a rare and
life-threatening condition known as MCADD
HAYDN WEST FOR THE TIMES

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              291 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                        May 16, 2016 Monday 6:30 AM EST

Abeona Therapeutics Announces First Quarter 2016 Summary Financial Results,
Recent Operational Highlights

LENGTH: 631  words


May 16 -- Abeona Therapeutics Inc. (NASDAQ: ABEO), a clinical-stage
biopharmaceutical company focused on developing and delivering gene therapy and
plasma-based products for severe and life-threatening rare diseases, today
announced summary financial results for the first quarter. The Company will
provide a business update for investors and other stakeholders on a conference
call, Tuesday, May 17th, at 10 am (Eastern). Tim Miller, Ph.D., President and
Chief Executive Officer and Jeffrey Davis, Chief Operating Officer, together
with other executives, will conduct the call. Interested parties are invited to
participate in the call by dialing 877-269-7756 (toll free domestic) or
201-689-7817 (international). The call will consist of an overview of the
Company's 1Q16 financials, and a discussion of business highlights.

"The first quarter of this year has led to significant advancements in our goal
of building a leadership position in the field of gene therapy and plasma
protein therapies for rare diseases," stated Steven H. Rouhandeh, Executive
Chairman. "We thank our collaborators, shareholders and staff as we prepare to
launch human clinical trials in up to four different rare diseases over the next
12 months."

Tim Miller, PhD, stated, "In the first quarter, Abeona hit important regulatory
milestones with the FDA allowance of our Phase 1/2 clinical study in Sanfilippo
syndrome type A (MPS IIIA) and the European approvals of the Genetically
Modified Organisms (GMO) and Ethical Committee (CEIC) regulatory filings.
Additionally, Abeona and its academic collaborators presented meaningful
pre-clinical data at the World Symposium of Lysosomal Storage Diseases in San
Diego, and on its proprietary CRISPR/Cas9 platform at the 2nd Annual CRISPR
Precision Gene Editing Congress in Boston, MA."

Recent Abeona Operating Highlights

* The Interministerial Council of Genetically Modified Organisms has approved
the Genetically Modified Organism (GMO) Voluntary Release and Ethical Committee
(CEIC) regulatory filings for both Phase 1/2 Gene Therapy Clinical Studies to
treat patients with AB0-101 (AAV NAGLU) and ABO-102 (AAV SGSH) for patients with
Sanfilippo syndrome type A (MPS IIIA) or type B (MPS IIIB)

* FDA allowed an Investigational New Drug (IND) for Systemic AAV Phase 1/2
Clinical Study With ABO-102 Gene Therapy for Patients With Sanfilippo Syndrome
Type A (MPS IIIA)

* Abeona highlighted new preclinical Juvenile Neuronal Ceroid Lipofuscinosis
(JNCL) data at WORLDSymposium() 2016 which demonstrated encouraging in vivo
efficacy in preclinical JNCL (also known as Juvenile Batten disease) model

* Abeona partnered with Therapure Biopharma to continue its efforts in
developing rare plasma proteins in SDF Alpha for inherited COPD

* Abeona presented compelling data at the 2nd Annual CRISPR Precision Gene
Editing Congress in Boston, MA which showed that CRISPR/Cas9 gene repair
resulted in normalization of the FANCC gene in Fanconi anemia (FA)

First Quarter Summary Financial Results

* Cash Position: Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities as of March
31, 2016 were $37.4 million, compared to $40.1 million as of December 31, 2015.
Net cash used in operating activities in 1Q16 was $2.5 million as compared to
$3.2 million in the same period in 2015, a decrease of $647 thousand.

* Revenues: Revenues were $235 thousand for the first quarter of 2016, compared
to $258 thousand in in the first quarter of 2015. Revenues consisted of a
combination of royalties from marketed products, primarily MuGard, and
recognition of deferred revenues related to upfront payments from early license
agreements.

* Loss per share: Loss per share was $0.17 for the first quarter of 2016,
compared to a loss per share of $0.10 in comparable period in 2015.

Source: Abeona Therapeutics

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2016 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              292 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                           The Philadelphia Inquirer

                            October 21, 2016 Friday
                                  WEB Edition

Camden Catholic field hockey team dedicates season to boy with rare disease

BYLINE: By Phil Anastasia; STAFF WRITER

SECTION: WEB; P-com Spt. High School; Pg. 00

LENGTH: 356 words


The Camden Catholic field hockey team is having a special season.

The Irish are winning a lot of games, too.

The two things are related, but senior center-forward Erin Campbell said the
team's success is the result of a focus on something much more important than
the scoreboard.

"We've all been able to take a step back and see there's so much more out there,
so many things bigger than playing a game," Campbell said.

Camden Catholic has dedicated its season to Luke Martine, a four-year-old from
Cherry Hill with a rare disease known as Congenital Central Hypoventilation
Syndrome.

The team is to hold a "Light Up the Night" event at its home game against Ocean
City on Thursday night in a battle of two of South Jersey's top programs.

The event is a fund-raiser and also designed to raise awareness. All proceeds
from sales of T-shirts, glow sticks and items from the refreshment stand will
benefit the CCHS Foundation in support of the Martine family.

Luke is one of just 1,200 cases of Congenital Central Hypoventilation Syndrome
worldwide. CCHS is a central nervous system disorder that prohibits the brain
from signalling the body to breath when the person is asleep.

As a result, Luke must be mechanically ventilated. He has a tracheotomy and must
be hooked to a ventilator when he sleeps.

Camden Catholic team mom Christine Johns is one of Luke's nurses. Her daughters,
Rebecca and Kate, who are members of the team, are babysitters.

Campbell said Luke has attended several practices this season and has been an
"inspiration" to the team.

"We're so lucky that we found Luke," Campbell said. "We were looking for
something, something to get us moving.

"Now we're playing in his honor."

Camden Catholic enters Thursday night's game with a 13-4 record and a seven-game
winning streak. Campbell said it was "so perfect" that Luke's disease is
abbreviated with the the same initials as the high school.

"He has helped us so much," Campbell said. "We have such a great environment.
We're so positive, and it's because we know we're playing for something bigger
than ourselves."

panastasia@phillynews.com

@PhilAnastasia

www.philly.com/jerseysidesports

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photograph by: Camden Catholic High School

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 Philadelphia Newspapers, LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              293 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                           The Philadelphia Inquirer

                            October 21, 2016 Friday
                                  WEB Edition

Camden Catholic field hockey team dedicates season to boy with rare disease

BYLINE: By Phil Anastasia; STAFF WRITER

SECTION: WEB; P-com Spt. High School; Pg. 00

LENGTH: 356 words


The Camden Catholic field hockey team is having a special season.

The Irish are winning a lot of games, too.

The two things are related, but senior center-forward Erin Campbell said the
team's success is the result of a focus on something much more important than
the scoreboard.

"We've all been able to take a step back and see there's so much more out there,
so many things bigger than playing a game," Campbell said.

Camden Catholic has dedicated its season to Luke Martine, a four-year-old from
Cherry Hill with a rare disease known as Congenital Central Hypoventilation
Syndrome.

The team is to hold a "Light Up the Night" event at its home game against Ocean
City on Thursday night in a battle of two of South Jersey's top programs.

The event is a fund-raiser and also designed to raise awareness. All proceeds
from sales of T-shirts, glow sticks and items from the refreshment stand will
benefit the CCHS Foundation in support of the Martine family.

Luke is one of just 1,200 cases of Congenital Central Hypoventilation Syndrome
worldwide. CCHS is a central nervous system disorder that prohibits the brain
from signalling the body to breath when the person is asleep.

As a result, Luke must be mechanically ventilated. He has a tracheotomy and must
be hooked to a ventilator when he sleeps.

Camden Catholic team mom Christine Johns is one of Luke's nurses. Her daughters,
Rebecca and Kate, who are members of the team, are babysitters.

Campbell said Luke has attended several practices this season and has been an
"inspiration" to the team.

"We're so lucky that we found Luke," Campbell said. "We were looking for
something, something to get us moving.

"Now we're playing in his honor."

Camden Catholic enters Thursday night's game with a 13-4 record and a seven-game
winning streak. Campbell said it was "so perfect" that Luke's disease is
abbreviated with the the same initials as the high school.

"He has helped us so much," Campbell said. "We have such a great environment.
We're so positive, and it's because we know we're playing for something bigger
than ourselves."

panastasia@phillynews.com

@PhilAnastasia

www.philly.com/jerseysidesports

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photograph by: Camden Catholic High School

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 Philadelphia Newspapers, LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              294 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                      Hamilton Spectator (Ontario, Canada)

                       June 29, 2001 Friday Final Edition

Gene makes diagnosis of rare leukemia easier

SOURCE: The Canadian Press

BYLINE: Helen Branswell

SECTION: CANADA & WORLD; Pg. C01

LENGTH: 450 words

DATELINE: TORONTO


Researchers at the Hospital for Sick Children and St. Jude Children's Research
Hospital in Tennessee have pinpointed the gene that causes a rare and fatal form
of childhood leukemia.

Lead author Dr. Hans Hitzler hopes the discovery will help science figure out
how to treat the disease, which does not respond well to conventional cancer
therapies.

He also hopes that what is learned about acute megakaryoblastic leukemia --
called AMKL -- will help unravel the mysteries behind many other forms of
childhood leukemia.

"I would say the value of this kind of research is not so much in the numbers.
Those are rare diseases," Hitzler said in an interview.

"But there's ample precedent that rare diseases often teach us a great deal
about the mechanism of a disease. And that's my hope of what will come from this
kind of work."

The research was published today in the journal Nature Genetics.

Studying the disease has not been easy. It's so rare that hospitals like Sick
Kids may see only one case a year.

The disease strikes children with Down's syndrome and infants, usually under 18
months of age. For the latter, the prospects are bleak. The median survival time
for these children is eight months.

The disease is different in children with Down's syndrome, and chemotherapy
works better in those cases.

Hitzler and his colleagues studied the form of AMKL that is seen in infants.
They found that nearly all these children have what's called a chromosomal
translocation on genes 1 and 22. It has the effect of fusing the two genes.

"That's what often happens with chromosomal translocations, that two genes that
should be on separate chromosomes, that should have nothing to do with each
other, now are fused together."

Instead of each making their own protein -- genes contain the recipes for the
proteins that run the body's functions -- the fused gene then makes a new
protein.

In the short term, the discovery means doctors now have a tool to diagnose AMKL.
And researchers have been given a road map for the disease. By figuring out what
the proteins made by genes 1 and 22 normally do, science may be able to find a
way to prevent the fusion from taking place.

Such a therapy promises to be much easier to tolerate than traditional cancer
treatments such as chemotherapy.

"I don't want to create the wrong impression that this is around the corner,"
Hitzler said, referring to a cure for AMKL.

Funding for the research was provided by the Hospital for Sick Children
Foundation, St. Jude Children's Research Hospital, the American Lebanese Syrian
Associated Charities, the U.S. National Cancer Institute and the Canadian
Institutes of Health Research.

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News

                    Copyright 2001 Metroland Media Group Ltd


                              295 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                      The Observer (Gladstone, Queensland)

                             June 14, 2016 Tuesday

Rare disease attacks mum and daughter;
HEALTH Mum, daughter suffer autoimmune syndrome

BYLINE:  Sarah Barnham

SECTION: Pg. 7

LENGTH: 535  words


PAULINE Johnston knows all about the symptoms of the rare Guillian-Barre
syndrome after suffering from it herself, so when her daughter Megan called her
in tears describing her symptoms, Pauline told her to get to a doctor
immediately.

Fifteen years ago after a stressful year and overcoming a nasty flu, Pauline was
diagnosed with the autoimmune syndrome.

The syndrome first took Pauline's ability to move her arms, then it was her
knees and shortly afterwards she lost everything.

"A lot of people think the syndrome is a virus," she said.

"But it's not, it's actually triggered by a virus. I was getting over a flu. On
a Monday I started to feel the numbness in my hands.

"On the Wednesday I was at my daughter's place and the kids were laughing at me
because my knees kept giving out and I couldn't walk properly."

By Thursday, the syndrome had crept all through Pauline's body, rendering her
incapable of any movement.

She was flown to Rockhampton, then Brisbane and placed in ICU. After a lumbar
puncture procedure she was diagnosed.

"I had no control of my body, I couldn't do anything," she said.

"When I was itchy I couldn't even scratch myself."

After five weeks in Brisbane Pauline was flown back to Rockhampton where she
began rehab and water therapy.

Five months later she began to feel movement again in her hands.

"I didn't sleep properly for five months," she said.

"Every night when I was lying in bed I saw this horrible black creature hanging
off the ceiling, it had hideous big teeth and it would just stare at me."

Pauline said she later found out it was a "manifestation of her depression" but
when she finally left hospital to go back home it became nothing but a dot on
her ceiling.

It took two years for Pauline to get her life back on track, and relearn how to
do the basic things in life.

So when her daughter Megan Johnston, 43, rang in October last year to say she
couldn't feel her face or her legs, Pauline feared the worst.

"What the syndrome does is when you have a virus, your immune system works to
get rid of it, like usual," she said.

"But once the virus is gone, and your immune system keeps working and it flips
on itself and starts attacking the nervous system.

"It's so painful, your nerves are stripped of their coating and it's just raw
pain, constantly."

Megan was flown to hospital herself where she was also diagnosed with
Guillian-Barre syndrome.

While her case is not as bad as her mother's and she is out of hospital, Megan
has trouble walking and cannot work.

"Before the syndrome she was a very full-on girl, couldn't stand just being in
bed all day," Pauline said.

"But she is receiving treatment to aid her in recovery, something that wasn't
around 15 years ago."

Guillian-Barre syndrome is not hereditary and you cannot catch it from another
person.

According to Brain Foundation Australia, the syndrome usually follows after a
bacterial or viral infection.

Both Pauline and Megan are still looking for the answers, and said they would
volunteer for DNA testing of the syndrome, should the opportunity arise.

"People need to know about it," Pauline said.

"Anyone in the world could get it, what happened to me and my daughter could
happen to anyone, even if it is a rare disease."

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: OGO


                    Copyright 2016 APN Newspapers Pty. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              296 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                             Waterloo Region Record

                           October 29, 2015 Thursday
                                 First Edition

Ontario offers help for women with rare disease

BYLINE: Keith Leslie, The Canadian Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A7

LENGTH: 638 words


Health Minister Eric Hoskins says he's been moved by the stories of two young
Ontario women with a rare disorder and wants to find ways to help them medically
and financially.

Erika Crawford, 20, of Brantford and Brooklyn Mills, 22, of Oakville, both
suffer from Ehlers Danois Syndrome, or EDS, a genetic defect in the connective
tissue that provides supports to many body parts including skin, muscles and
ligaments.

It leads to severe dislocations, chronic pain, heart problems, mobility issues,
lost vision, severe fatigue and a poor quality of life, and is so hard to
diagnose that few doctors have the knowledge to properly treat patients.

"I don't think there's ever a day when I don't feel like crap," a sobbing
Crawford told a news conference at the Ontario legislature.

"I'm just kind of in a nightmare waiting to wake up every day, and I honestly
can't remember the last time that I ever had a day when I was OK, when the day
was fine with no complications," said Mills.

Hoskins met with the two women and their parents Wednesday and said he created a
panel of experts to look at ways to help them and others with rare diseases like
Ehlers Danois Syndrome. It would also look at how to help them financially.

"I was moved by and concerned by their stories, particularly because they felt
they were not able to receive the services they need in Ontario, and they felt
let down," he said. "No families should have to go through the challenges that
these families have gone through."

Hoskins said the two families agreed to sit down with the expert panel, and he
plans to attend the meeting.

"I feel it is critically important that the working group, at the earliest
possible moment, in my presence, meet with these families and hear their stories
and the challenges they face," he said.

Darin Crawford, Erika's father, said she's seen 35 specialists, spent hundreds
of days in hospital and had countless emergency room visits, but they haven't
been able to find a single doctor in Ontario with the expertise needed to treat
her.

"I've lost track of how many times my daughter has been labelled psychosomatic
because doctors in Ontario do not have the necessary training or experience to
treat this disease," he said.

"It's bad enough having such a horrible, disability disease, but to have doctors
tell you you have manifested the symptoms in your head is just cruel and
inhumane."

Watching hospital staff Google EDS to find out what it is doesn't inspire much
confidence, and the expertise that exists in the United States needs to be
taught to Canadian doctors, Crawford added as he choked back tears.

"Bring that knowledge back to Ontario so families like ours do not have to
become financially ruined for the health care we have paid dearly for," he said.
"The stress and financial hardship our family has endured over the last five
years has been devastating."

Both women have had to travel to the United States for surgeries - in Brooklyn's
case 40 different operations - and their families have racked up huge bills
because OHIP won't cover their out-of-province medical costs.

"It took nine years to get a diagnosis," said Rebecca Mills, Brooklyn's mother.

"She's had countless surgeries in the U.S. but none of this has been funded by
OHIP, and has left our family in financial ruin, not to mention the incredible
emotional toll and stress we have had to endure."

The Mills have sold their house to pay their medical bills of more than $1
million, putting out $400,000 so far.

People like Erika and Brooklyn with EDS are caught in a "bizarre catch-22, where
they can't get treatment in Ontario while the Ministry of Health fails to cover
treatment out of the province," said Progressive Conservative MPP Michael
Harris. He introduced a petition in the legislature calling for funding of out
of province treatment for EDS patients.

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 Metroland Media Group Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              297 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                                  COURIER-MAIL

                              June 17, 1991 Monday

RARE DISEASE STRIKES FAMILY

SOURCE: QNP

BYLINE: AAPGROUP

LENGTH: 194 words


Rare disease strikes family MELBOURNE: Charlie and Sylvia Webb have five
children _ three of whom have the rarest genetic disease in Australia. The
children Jade, 9, Tegan 7, and Lucas, 6, have Leroy I-Cell Syndrome. They are
among only 10 Australian children who have the condition and are believed to be
the only three still living. They have all passed normal life expectancy for the
disease. Mr and Mrs Webb laugh when most people would cry: ""It's important to
focus on what they can do, not what they can't. ""We don't know how much time
we've got with them, so we've stopped worrying about things and enjoy the time
we have got." The two other children, Caryl and Christian, are completely
normal. Mr Webb, 35, and Mrs Webb, 33, of Albury on the Victoria-New South Wales
border admit to moments of ""terrible shock" and times when they ""prayed like
crazy" for the children. Symptoms of Leroy I-Cell Syndrome are stunted growth,
limited joint movement, enlarged liver and spleen, heart abnormalities,
recurrent ear and chest infection and susceptibility to any illness. The Webb
family . . . helping three of their children survive is their life.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PIC OF THE WEBB FAMILY, CHARLIE AND SYLVIA WITH THEIR CHILDREN JADE,
TEGAN, LUCAS, CARYL AND CHRISTIAN

JOURNAL-CODE: CML

                   Copyright 1991 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                              298 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          The Courier Mail (Australia)

                            February 21, 2016 Sunday
                              CourierMail Edition

Charlie's plight a challenge

BYLINE: ROSE BRENNAN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 189  words


CHARLIE Harris' beautiful disposition masks the health battle she bravely
endures every day.

The Gold Coast two-year-old has Mowat-Wilson syndrome, a condition so rare it
affects only 170 people worldwide.

Parents Catherine Harris, 40, and Michael Harris, 39, face the daunting costs of
caring for a child with such a rare disease.

Charlie was born at just 28 weeks weighing 900g and had a difficult start to
life, including a doctor breaking her arm, and her development was slow.

"What she did do on time was smile at the usual eight-week mark," Ms Harris
said.

Her parents hoped her development delays were due to the premature birth but she
was diagnosed with the syndrome at 18 months. Charlie can suffer seizures for up
to three hours and is unable to sit or walk unaided.

A Facebook fundraising page - Unite for Charlie - has been established to raise
funds for therapy, modifications to their home and a walking frame and
wheelchair.

February 29 is Rare -Disease Day Australia and a fundraising event is being held
in Brisbane on Saturday.

FOR FUNDRAISER DETAILS GO TO TRYBOOKING.COM/KBRL; HELP CHARLIE AT FACEBOOK
.COM/UNITEFORCHARLIE

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: The Courier-Mail


                   Copyright 2016 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              299 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            Waterloo Courier (Iowa)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             July 26, 2008 Saturday

Flood devastates family already dealing with sons' rare disease

BYLINE: Samantha Donisi, Waterloo-Cedar Falls Courier, Iowa

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 1388 words


Jul. 26--CLARKSVILLE -- Michelle and David Lucas were awakened the morning of
June 10 by pounding and screaming. Their neighbors were at the front door,
telling them to get up and get out because floodwaters had entered their
backyard. They had just enough time to get their two sons, Keith and Daniel, up
and dressed, grab a diaper bag and go.

That bag was virtually the only thing they were able to save from the flood that
claimed all their possessions and their newly remodeled home.

"We lost all the furniture, and most of our clothes and other possessions are
gone," Michelle Lucas said.

The Lucases' story echoes those of many families in the wake of the record
flooding, but their story is unique. Their two sons both have a rare genetic
disorder known as Lesch-Nyhan syndrome. The boys use wheelchairs and are unable
to care for themselves. The disruption in their day-to-day lives has been
particularly hard on Keith, 16, and Daniel, 12.

"The boys got so stressed from the flooding and the disrupted schedule that they
dehydrated themselves," Lucas said. "Their doctor recommended we put them in a
home until we can find temporary housing, but I was like, 'There is no way.' I
know they just want to give us a chance to relax, but that would be too damaging
for them to break their routine even more."

Dr. William Nyhan, professor of pediatrics at the University of California-San
Diego School of Medicine, who along with medical student Michael Lesch, first
characterized the disease in 1964.

"The enormity of having two kids in the same family with Lesch-Nyhan is a
hardship by itself," Nyhan said in a phone interview. "We all have this sort of
problem (adjusting to an upset in routine), but the trouble with Lesch-Nyhan is
that it tends to be magnified and the behaviors tend to get worse when the
individual is in a situation they feel is threatening."

Nyhan said it would be a serious mistake to put the boys in a home, though he
acknowledged he has never met Keith and Daniel. He has spoken with Michelle many
times over the years, however.

Lesch-Nyhan syndrome stems from an enzyme deficiency and is characterized by a
buildup of uric acid in bodily fluids that leads to symptoms such as severe
gout, poor muscle control, moderate retardation and self-mutilating behaviors
such as finger and lip biting.

There is a one in four chance that other siblings will have LNS. The Lucases
found out Michelle was pregnant with Daniel two weeks after Keith's diagnosis.

Michelle Lucas said the boys need constant care. They must be dressed, fed and
changed and are often restrained to prevent them from injuring themselves
involuntarily. People with LNS don't want to hurt themselves; they know what
they're doing is wrong, but they can't help themselves.

"They will try and gouge their eyes or scratch themselves," Lucas said. "Keith
fell out of bed once and rubbed his face raw on the carpet before we could get
to him. These kids have a great sense of humor and they are really fun to be
around, but they have these behaviors that are difficult to deal with and to
explain."

She added that Keith has a host of problems besides the LNS. He has a condition
the doctors call malignant hyperthermia, a condition in which he can make
himself run a fever as high as 107 degrees, which has been documented at the
University of Iowa Hospitals and Clinics.

Their bodies' excess uric acid causes many kidney and renal problems. Both Keith
and Daniel have had four major kidney surgeries since 2002.

Because of the unpredictability of their disorder, Michelle and David are
uncomfortable letting others care for their sons.

"The kids' health concerns are so high that you are always worrying about
something happening to them," Michelle Lucas said. "One day everything is fine,
and the next we're rushing off to Iowa City. You can restrain them, but they
still find ways to hurt themselves."

It doesn't look like the Lucas family will be returning to a sense of normalcy
any time soon. They stayed with Michelle's brother in Waverly right after the
flooding and then moved to a temporary rental house. Soon after, the family
received notice that the home had been sold and they had 30 days to vacate.

The Federal Emergency Management Agency located a trailer for them to live in
temporarily, and the city of Clarksville donated the land to set it on. However,
the family had only been in the trailer two days when they were told that the
FEMA trailers had mold in them and they needed to evacuate. That was last
Saturday.

The plan was for the family to stay in a hotel until a new trailer was found,
but the hotel was only booked for four days even though FEMA thought it was
booked for two weeks. Space is hard to come by because the family needs
adjoining rooms due to the boys' situation, and nearly everything in the area is
full.

The only other option is Michelle's sister in Ohio. The family headed that way
Thursday, with plans to come back in a few weeks after things settle down.

Michelle said she felt FEMA was dealing with the situation well and doing all it
could to help out. The agency has paid for the hotel and is storing what few
belongings they have left.

Michelle and David both stressed they are uncomfortable with the attention they
have received since the flooding.

"We are not the only ones in this situation. We just have the boys that make our
situation different," David Lucas said. "It's not any worse or any bigger than
anyone else's troubles."

Kurt Miller is a friend of the Lucas family. Miller's 5-year old son, Kole, has
the same disorder. Miller said he knows from first-hand experience how difficult
it is to rear a child with LNS, even when everything is going as smoothly as
possible.

"When things get away from the routine, stress levels raise and the behaviors
associated with LNS increase dramatically," Miller said. "The boys (Keith and
Daniel) are having a very tough go of it. Their whole world has been turned
upside down."

David said he worked a little bit at a time to make their home more accessible
for Keith and Daniel.

He took out walls to give them more space and enlarged all the doorways so their
wheelchairs would fit. He even reduced the size of the kitchen so the bathroom
could be enlarged to make it easier to bathe the boys.

"I spent a lot of years working on the house," David said. "I only had wood trim
in three rooms to finish and some siding on the back of the house to put on when
the flood came."

The appraiser, who came after the flooding, said the house is uninhabitable and
only worth the land it sits on.

"We had 3 feet of water on the first floor," David said. "It's a limestone
foundation, so water damage makes it about worthless."

Miller heard about the family's troubles with the flooding and decided to do
what he could to help. He has set up a benefit account in their name at Veridian
Credit Union.

"David and Michelle have given their whole lives to giving Keith and Daniel the
best lives that they can have as long as they're with us," Miller said. "I've
told them on more than one occasion that I think they are heroes, and now they
need a hero."

Miller said the Lucases reluctantly agreed to sign papers authorizing the
account, and by the time they got in to Veridian to do the paperwork, people
already had begun depositing money.

Dr. Nyhan was the first person to donate.

"We're all in the same boat," Michelle said. We are all lost in our own worlds,
and we don't want anyone to feel sorry for us, because it's not just us. These
little towns got left behind and it's sad. We hate to be negative because
everyone around us is going through the same thing, and people are trying to
help."

Those interested in donating to the Lucas fund may call Veridian Credit Union at
(800) 235-3228 or visit a branch in person. Donors are asked to make
contributions in the name of David and Michelle Lucas.

Contact Samantha Donisi at newsroom@wcfcourier.com

To see more of the Waterloo-Cedar Falls Courier, or to subscribe to the
newspaper, go to http://www.wcfcourier.com/. Copyright (c) 2008, Waterloo-Cedar
Falls Courier, Iowa Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For
reprints, email tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or
847-635-6550, send a fax to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group
Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave., Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20080726-OO-Flood-devastates-family-already-dealing-with-sons-
rare-disease-0726

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: OO


                        Copyright 2008 Waterloo Courier


                              300 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                      August 2, 2017 Wednesday 6:30 AM EST

X4 Pharmaceuticals Announces Rare Disease Research Collaboration with Yale
University

LENGTH: 755  words


Aug. 2 -- X4 Pharmaceuticals, a clinical stage biotechnology company developing
novel CXCR4 inhibitor drugs to improve immune cell trafficking to treat cancer
and rare diseases, today announced the initiation of a multi-year sponsored
research program with Yale University to develop and study a genetic model of
WHIM syndrome, a rare genetic immunodeficiency disease which currently has no
approved treatments.

The multi-year research collaboration will investigate the fundamental
mechanisms that result in chronic immune deficiency in a genetic preclinical
model of WHIM syndrome. The research will be conducted with Joao Pedro Pereira,
PhD, an Associate Professor of Immunobiology and a member of Yale's Stem Cell
Center and Yale Cancer Center's Program in Cancer Immunology. Dr. Pereira's
laboratory is focused on the study of the mechanisms of hematopoiesis, the
fundamental and complex process that generates many different cell types
including all immune cells, and its role in conferring immunity.

"The incorrect positioning of immune cells in primary and secondary immune
organs due to CXCR4 mutations has been well documented," said Dr. Pereira. "This
research will elucidate the fundamental mechanisms that lead to chronic
impairment of the immune system, particularly of long-term immunity, as a result
of aberrant immune cell positioning and trafficking. CXCR4 plays a fundamental
role in immunity and we look forward to more deeply understanding its impact on
the immune system."

"It is gratifying to work with a leading immunobiologist like Dr. Pereira, who
has developed cutting edge technologies to study immune cell trafficking and
function on a single cell level," said Sudha Parasuraman, MD, Chief Medical
Officer of X4. "X4's research program with Yale offers the exciting possibility
to gain mechanistic insights into WHIM syndrome and the role that CXCR4 plays
broadly in immunity, so that we can further demonstrate the potential of our
drug candidate, X4P-001-RD, to address the unmet need of patients with WHIM
syndrome."

About WHIM Syndrome

WHIM syndrome is a primary genetic immunodeficiency disease caused by mutations
in the CXCR4 receptor gene resulting susceptibility to certain infections. WHIM
is an abbreviation for the characteristic symptoms of the syndrome: Warts,
Hypogammaglobulinemia, Infections, and Myelokathexis. Within the overall
category of primary immunodeficiencies, there are between 15,000 and 100,000
patients in the US that are classified with disease of unknown origin - of which
WHIM is one of these diseases of unknown origin. The precise prevalence of
patients that have the genetic mutation responsible for WHIM syndrome is
unknown, but we estimate that several thousand patients worldwide suffer from
WHIM syndrome. Because patients are highly susceptible to infections, WHIM
syndrome is associated with significant morbidity beginning in early childhood
and continuing throughout life. Current therapy is limited to treatment of acute
infections with antibiotics or prevention through the use of intravenous
immunoglobulin. There is no approved therapy for the treatment of WHIM syndrome.

About X4P-001-RD for Primary Genetic Immunodeficiency Disease

X4P-001-RD, an oral, small molecule inhibitor of CXCR4, or C-X-C receptor type
4, is being developed for use as a life-long treatment for patients with WHIM
syndrome and other primary genetic immunodeficiencies. X4P-001-RD is currently
being studied in a Phase 2/3 trial in patients with WHIM syndrome. Within the
bone marrow, a normally functioning CXCR4 receptor controls the release of
neutrophils and leukocytes into the blood stream, thereby ensuring normal immune
surveillance functions throughout the body. In patients with WHIM syndrome,
mutations to the CXCR4 receptor cause aberrant signaling leading to retention of
neutrophils and leukocytes in the bone marrow and inadequate immune surveillance
and function.[1, 2] X4P-001-RD is designed to normalize the signaling for the
mutant CXCR4 receptor to promote the release of neutrophils and leukocytes,
thereby restoring healthy immunity.

Footnote:

[1] Hernandez PA, Gorlin RJ, Lukens JN, et al. Mutations in the chemokine
receptor gene CXCR4 are associated with WHIM syndrome, a combined
immunodeficiency disease. Nature Genetics 2003;34(1):70-74.

[2] Gulino AV, Moratto D, Sozzani S, et al. Altered leukocyte response to CXCL12
in patients with Warts Hypogammaglobulinemia, Infections, Myelokathexis (WHIM)
syndrome. Blood 2004;104(2):444-452.

Source: X4 Pharmaceuticals

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2017 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              301 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                 Gazette Series

                           February 28, 2017 Tuesday

Rare Disease Day: Dursley two-year-old's battle with one in ten million syndrome

BYLINE: Eddie Bisknell

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 483 words


AS part of Rare Disease Day the Gazette is sharing the story of a two-year-old
from Dursley who has a one in ten million syndrome.

Isaac Mansell has the neurological disorder called Opsoclonus Myoclonus Syndrome
(OMS), which was caused by a cancerous tumour which was removed from his abdomen
on May 4 2016 and removed 13 days later.

This is how 50 per cent of cases are caused, the other half of cases are caused
by a virus.

Isaac's condition has caused his body's immune system to go into overdrive and
produces an response which attacks the brain as well as the tumour.

This has caused the him to lose his ability to perform everyday tasks including
walking, talking, eating, sitting and balance.

He often has rapid eye movements and uncontrollable body jerks and tremors -
which has been very distressing for his family and loved ones.

His mother Rheanne said: "Isaac is currently doing well and we have managed to
get most of his symptoms under control, he has very very mild body tremors when
he's angry or frightened/stressed.

"The journey to get him here has been difficult and we are far from the end but
looking very hopeful.

"Our aim for Isaac is remission of the OMS. Then we just have to pray and hope
that his body is able to respond to everyday illnesses without going crazy and
attacking his brain as well."

OMS is a life-long condition that Isaac will never be rid of completely, but
with continued treatment he can regain many of his abilities - he recently
walked down the stairs in their Dursley home, a massive achievement.

Isaac turned two in September and didn't attend pre-school in favour of staying
home with father, Charlie, so that Rheanne could work -saving vital money on the
large expense of childcare.

Rheanne said: "He is just amazing, even on his darkest and most horrid days, he
still manages a smile - just."

The couple first noticed signs of the syndrome when Isaac began to fall over
more regularly than usual - he had been able to walk from 10 months.

He was taken to Cirencester Hospital and then Gloucestershire Royal before being
transferred again to Bristol Royal Infirmary on May 2 2016.

A CT scan revealed nothing and a further MRI and lumbar puncture were then
scheduled to give a definite answer for Isaac's symptoms which once suspected to
be encephalitis was confirmed as the one in ten million condition,
Opsoclonus-Myoclonus Syndrome.

Treatment started immediately for a dose of human immunoglobin, and a week later
dose one of 12 of dexamethasone steroids.

Intensive physiotherapy, occupational therapy and speech and language therapies
ensued for seven weeks before Isaac was able to be discharged on June 24.

The couple's second child, Henry was born on June 10 at St Mike's maternity unit
amidst Isaac's improving recovery.

Isaac is currently undergoing chemotherapy to improve his damaged immune system,
though the cancer was halted with the removal of the tumour.

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2017 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              302 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                 Gazette Series

                           February 28, 2017 Tuesday

Rare Disease Day: Dursley two-year-old's battle with one in ten million syndrome

BYLINE: Eddie Bisknell

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 483 words


AS part of Rare Disease Day the Gazette is sharing the story of a two-year-old
from Dursley who has a one in ten million syndrome.

Isaac Mansell has the neurological disorder called Opsoclonus Myoclonus Syndrome
(OMS), which was caused by a cancerous tumour which was found in his abdomen on
May 4 2016 and removed 13 days later.

This is how 50 per cent of cases are caused, the other half of cases are caused
by a virus.

Isaac's condition has caused his body's immune system to go into overdrive and
produces an response which attacks the brain as well as the tumour.

This has caused the him to lose his ability to perform everyday tasks including
walking, talking, eating, sitting and balance.

He often has rapid eye movements and uncontrollable body jerks and tremors -
which has been very distressing for his family and loved ones.

His mother Rheanne said: "Isaac is currently doing well and we have managed to
get most of his symptoms under control, he has very very mild body tremors when
he's angry or frightened/stressed.

"The journey to get him here has been difficult and we are far from the end but
looking very hopeful.

"Our aim for Isaac is remission of the OMS. Then we just have to pray and hope
that his body is able to respond to everyday illnesses without going crazy and
attacking his brain as well."

OMS is a life-long condition that Isaac will never be rid of completely, but
with continued treatment he can regain many of his abilities - he recently
walked down the stairs in their Dursley home, a massive achievement.

Isaac turned two in September and didn't attend pre-school in favour of staying
home with father, Charlie, so that Rheanne could work -saving vital money on the
large expense of childcare.

Rheanne said: "He is just amazing, even on his darkest and most horrid days, he
still manages a smile - just."

The couple first noticed signs of the syndrome when Isaac began to fall over
more regularly than usual - he had been able to walk from 10 months.

He was taken to Cirencester Hospital and then Gloucestershire Royal before being
transferred again to Bristol Royal Infirmary on May 2 2016.

A CT scan revealed nothing and a further MRI and lumbar puncture were then
scheduled to give a definite answer for Isaac's symptoms which once suspected to
be encephalitis was confirmed as the one in ten million condition,
Opsoclonus-Myoclonus Syndrome.

Treatment started immediately for a dose of human immunoglobin, and a week later
dose one of 12 of dexamethasone steroids.

Intensive physiotherapy, occupational therapy and speech and language therapies
ensued for seven weeks before Isaac was able to be discharged on June 24.

The couple's second child, Henry was born on June 10 at St Mike's maternity unit
amidst Isaac's improving recovery.

Isaac is currently undergoing chemotherapy to improve his damaged immune system,
though the cancer was halted with the removal of the tumour.

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2017 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              303 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            Aurora/Newmarket Banner

                            March 10, 2016 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

People could die due to bill's defeat: Newmarket man

SECTION: COMMUNITY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1048  words


Patients with rare diseases will continue to suffer and spend their life savings
on treatments after the Ontario government turned down a chance to help them, a
Newmarket father with a debilitating illness says.

"I am vastly disappointed that Premier (Kathleen) Wynne and her ruling Liberals
voted against this simple-seeming measure," Tim Green said.

He's worried the government's decision could mean "people with rare diseases
will die and/or go further into debt".

But while opposition politicians, including Thornhill MPP Gila Martow and
York-Simcoe MPP Julia Munro, are slamming the Liberals, Newmarket-Aurora MPP
Chris Ballard said his government is going beyond what came before the
legislature last week to help patients with rare diseases.

Last Thursday, the Liberal majority government voted down a private member's
motion from Progressive Conservative Kitchener-Conestoga MPP Michael Harris to
establish a select committee.

Related content

Newmarket man with rare disease must battle system for coverage March 2, 2016

The committee would have looked at ways to better diagnose and treat rare
diseases that strike one in 12 Ontario residents.

It is unfair people with rare diseases are often left to fund their own
treatments while patients with diseases such as cancer are covered by OHIP, he
said.

Harris said he came up with his private member's bill after watching patients
and their families come to Queen's Park to beg the government for help covering
the cost of their treatments.

After eight years of suffering progressively worsening symptoms, Green was
diagnosed last November with Erdheim-Chester disease.

He is one of only seven known Canadians today and one of only about 500
worldwide ever diagnosed with the disease, which causes severe muscle
co-ordination problems, slurred speech, organ failure and other symptoms.

Green has just started taking a medication usually given to cancer patients.

While his insurance is covering the $12,000 monthly cost, his family has
struggled financially for years as they coped with Green's increasingly
debilitating illness.

His wife, Kim Pape-Green, is upset the government didn't agree to the committee.

"I am shocked and extremely disappointed that this motion was defeated. It did
not commit the government to do anything but set up a committee to study the
issue," she said.

"Isn't the job of the politicians to be there to listen to us and help us with
our problems? If they are not listening to us, they are making us feel so
alone."

While Health Minister Eric Hoskins' announcement last week to establish a clinic
for Ehlers-Danlos Syndrome is a step in the right direction, the committee would
have given patients and their families the ear of politicians, who are able to
legislate a difference, Pape-Green said.

"Michael Harris' passionate speech showed with every word he said how he was
listening to people with rare diseases," she said, adding her family and others
will continue to advocate on the issue.

For Martow, the government's refusal to set up the committee was personal.

"I am the mother of four and my third son, Mitch, has health challenges. It took
years to find a specialist who was able to piece together what seemed unrelated
- two hernia surgeries, joint pain, burning pain and hyper-flexible joints that
easily dislocated," she said.

"Genetic tests and biopsies were conclusive for Ehlers-Danlos Syndrome and Mitch
is now an advocate for many Canadian sufferers. By not properly supporting
patients with rare diseases, we are failing to provide the necessary support,
ensure early diagnosis and provide affordable treatment."

As many patients with rare diseases and their families watched at the
legislature, it was "heart-breaking" to see the motion for the committee fail,
Martow said.

"Citizens in the galleries were in tears following the voting procedure," she
said.

"Ontarians count on elected officials to put aside partisan politics, to work
together to ensure we are doing our best to make this province a great place to
live, work and play."

However, Ballard said his government is taking action that will help patients
more than Harris' failed motion.

"It (the motion) wasn't supported, primarily, because we're actually ahead of
what MPP Harris wanted to do," he said.

"He wants to strike a travelling road show and spend months going around
Ontario."

Hoskins has already announced a working group to look into issues surrounding
rare diseases, including improving diagnoses and treatments for patients and
better co-ordinating services, Ballard said.

"So, our argument is that what Mr. Harris was putting forward was actually a
step backwards and he wanted to go back to the information-gathering (stage) and
spend time on the road. What Minister Hoskins is doing is actually working on
solutions," he said, adding the Ehlers-Danlos clinic will serve as a model for
addressing other rare diseases.

"Our position is rather than taking months to be on the road and travelling
around, let's just get at it. We've got the doctors lined up, we've got the
experts lined up. No need to waste months with a group of politicians travelling
the province."

But Harris and Munro argue the government's refusal to set up the committee was
a blow to patients with rare diseases.

Harris believes his motion was defeated by the Liberals for partisan reasons.

While he said his committee would have had MPPs from all three political
parties, he complained Hoskins' working group will be on the Liberals' terms
with their people.

"I can't help but tell you directly I feel this government, the Liberals, have
turned their backs on people with a rare disease," he said.

"It was an extremely emotional day for a lot of people, including myself."

The current system means patients with rare diseases are often left to fend for
themselves rather than being able to rely on a standard system, Munro said.

"People are left kind of wondering what kind of odds they have, instead of
having a set criteria saying this is what we can do, this is what we can look
after, here's what people can expect," she said.

"I talked to people Thursday after the vote and their hopes are dashed...
(Voting for the committee) would have at least given people a sense that their
government was interested in having a conversation about the struggles they
have."

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              304 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                The Denver Post

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                              SAT REGIONAL Edition

Rare disease turns skin "hard as stone"

BYLINE: David Olinger

SECTION: ASECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1293 words


ALAMOSA It started with a quarter sized knot on Jaiden's right leg.\xB6 Natalie
and Tim Rogers didn't worry much at first. Boys get bumps. \xB6 But a prominent
dermatologist decided to be safe and ordered a biopsy.\xB6 "Sit down. You're not
going to believe this," she told Jaiden's parents when the results came back.

Jaiden had been diagnosed with stiff skin syndrome, an extremely rare and
incurable disease. He was the 41st child in the world known to be stricken by
it, they were told.

Slowly, his own skin was entombing his body. The little lump spread to both legs
and hips then migrated upward.

As a 5 year old, Jaiden had played soccer. Two years later, he was complaining
about his stiffening legs. He couldn't bend his knees. They kept buckling under
him, and he fell.

He took the loss in stride. "Mommy," he announced calmly one day, "I need a
wheelchair. My legs won't walk anymore."

For the unlucky few, rare diseases come with a special curse. They don't get big
research grants. Natalie and Tim know of one doctor, at Johns Hopkins Children's
Center, who is studying stiff skin syndrome.

Because the disease is so rare, its diagnosis and prognosis can be unclear. The
Johns Hopkins doctor, Hal Dietz, said about a dozen families in the world have
been confirmed to carry the gene for stiff skin syndrome, which sometimes gets
confused with a deadlier, similar disease: scleroderma.

Is there hope for Jaiden? His parents live each day with that belief.

He's 10 now. Three years after his diagnosis, he looks remarkably normal but for
the wheelchair, a pale faced boy at his bedroom computer in a plaid shirt and
blue slacks.

"I like horses," he said.

He spends a lot of computer time admiring horses and wishing he could ride one.
This Halloween he plans to dress as a horse. He also gets a kick out of
YouTube's funniest horse videos, in which one rider after another gets thrown to
the ground.

In many ways, Jaiden is a typical kid. A Star Wars stormtrooper helmet and a
Denver Broncos cheerleaders' poster autographed by two of them ornament his
bedroom. Lincoln Logs, Parcheesi and Candy Land games are stowed in his closet.
He makes a variety of goofy faces. Soon, he will eclipse his parents' computer
agility.

In other ways, he fights a daily battle with his body. He takes eight
prescription medicines daily for ailments from leg pain to depression.
Chemotherapy slowed the disease, but his parents stopped that recently because
his fingers grew numb.

The only place he walks now is around the therapy pool his parents installed,
because water takes the pressure off his legs. To keep them moving, a physical
therapist helps bend and stretch them several times a week.

Jaiden also suffers occasional seizures and migraine headaches. He began gasping
for breath at night, so he goes to bed now with oxygen tubes in his nose. And
his stiff skin, which his father likens to the texture of a countertop, keeps
spreading.

His parents have created a fundraising website for Jaiden. Now they are
considering a month longtrip to Europe, where experimental medicines are more
readily available.

"It's kind of sounding like we're running out of options in the United States,"
Tim said. "What we hope is it doesn't get in the joints. It gets hard as stone."

For Jaiden, physical pain is not the worst part of his disease. "I can't play
with my friends," he said.

There's something else he wants people to know about his illness.

"It's not contagious."

Doctor's visit

The first time Dr. Mikaila Pence saw Jaiden, she got a big surprise.

Stiff skin syndrome? "I hadn't ever heard of it," she said.

Pence, a cheerful young pediatrician, works in an office colorfully decorated
with murals of fish swimming in coral reefs. Most days, her schedule mixes well
baby checkups with cases of runny noses, asthma and other common childhood
ailments.

This day, her most unusual patient is visiting the fishbowl.

"I saw you at the football game on Saturday," she told Jaiden as his mother
wheeled him in.

Alamosa is an isolated city with a small college, Adams State University, and
few medical specialists. Jaiden travels 240 miles to Denver to see a
dermatologist. Meanwhile, his pediatrician does what she can to help.

She asks his mother about all of his medicines and the decision to drop his
chemotherapy drug. "I'll be anxious to see what the dermatologist says," she
commented. Later, his dermatologist will prescribe another chemotherapy drug.

Pence examines his new areas of skin disease a shoulder, his lower back. "Tight.
Tight and hard," she said, glancing anxiously at his mother. The stiff skin is
forming bands on his body.

"Is he getting up and about at all?" Pence asked.

"No. Huh uh," Natalie replied.

That worries his doctor. At the age of 10, Jaiden is vulnerable to deteriorating
foot bones if he doesn't strengthen them by walking.

"I think the hard part is it's such a rare disease," she said. "It's hard to
know what to predict or expect or how to treat it."

At Johns Hopkins, Dietz said stiff skin syndrome also is difficult to diagnose
and confirmable only by a DNA test for the gene that causes it. Dietz said stiff
skin syndrome often gets confused with scleroderma, which also produces tight,
hard skin but can kill the victim by invading internal organs.

In some ways, Jaiden's disease looks more like scleroderma because, Dietz said,
stiff skin syndrome tends to show up at birth.

Dietz rues that federal research dollars have been declining for such diseases.
He said cholesterol medicine users, for instance, can thank a breakthrough
originating with rare disease research.

"I see a worrisome trend in that rare disorders are not getting the same amount
of funding," he said. "I think rare disorders have taken a hit over the last
decade or so."

Troubled background

Legally, Tim and Natalie Rogers are Jaiden's guardians, not his parents, but
they call him their son, and he calls them Mom and Dad.

They would like to adopt him. They adopted and raised two other children. But
Jaiden would lose Medicaid benefits if they did, and Tim's medical insurance as
a retired Federal Bureau of Prisons employee wouldn't come close to paying the
bills.

This month alone, Jaiden is scheduled to see eight doctors on a single trip to
Denver.

He came into their lives at the age of 2 in what was supposed to be a short term
situation.

His grandmother in Georgia, an old friend of Natalie and Tim, called for help.
Jaiden had been neglected, his 18 year old mother was in jail, and his
grandmother didn't think she could take care of him.

Jaiden had been born with fetal alcohol syndrome. He was hyperactive and mildly
autistic but otherwise a pretty normal kid for the next five years. He reads
above grade level, his father said, and struggles only with math.

Tim hopes the disease can be stabilized enough to enable Jaiden to hold a
homebound computer job as an adult.

Already, "he types a lot faster than I do," Tim said. "He types from about 6
inches above the keyboard. It's amazing how he does it."

The couple bought a small house north of Alamosa in 2006 as their future
retirement home.

They envisioned a quiet, self sufficient life here. At dawn, Blanca Peak towers
over the eastern horizon. At night, stars blaze in a sky unlit by humans.

For Jaiden, they added a boardwalk from the front deck to the new therapy pool
building, a donor aided project that cost nearly as much as they previously paid
for the house.

"Tim and I had the house even before we had Jaiden," Natalie said. "It was going
to be a simple life."

Once she was asked whether she would have taken custody of Jaiden if she knew
all the travails lying ahead. She didn't hesitate.

"We were thankful from the beginning," she said. "He's a good kid."

David Olinger: 303 954 1498, dolinger@denverpost.com or @dolingerdp

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Jaiden sits in bed before going to sleep for the night at his home in
Alamosa. Jaiden is a 10-year-old boy with stiff skin syndrome, one of 41 kids in
the world known to have the disease. Photos by AAron Ontiveroz, The Denver Post
Jaiden closes his eyes as Dr. Mikaila Pence feels for spots of stiffness around
his neck during a visit in early October.
Above, Jaiden, 10, says a dinner prayer with his parents, "God is good, God is
great and we thank him for this food. Amen." At left, Tim Rogers wheels Jaiden
to the family minivan for a trip to the doctor. Rogers built the property's yard
in Alamosa to accommodate Jaiden's worsening disability. Photos by AAron
Ontiveroz, The Denver Post

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2015 The Denver Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              305 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                       The Sun Herald (Sydney, Australia)

                              May 30, 2010 Sunday
                                 First Edition

Cricket great's fund-raising challenge;
City2Surf

BYLINE: Heather Quinlan

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 41

LENGTH: 417 words


AS AUSTRALIAN Test cricket captain he was granite-tough but Steve Waugh's
ultra-competitive exterior hid compassion and a strong bond with those less
fortunate than himself.

His bat and baggy green hung up for good, Waugh's latest challenge is to run in
The Sun-Herald City2Surf, presented by Westpac, accompanied by fellow Team Waugh
members who are fund-raising for children with rare diseases.

The Steve Waugh Foundation helps children whose illnesses are so uncommon, they
"fall through the cracks" of major support networks.

By linking with the City2Surf, to be held on August 8, Waugh hopes to inspire
"thousands of people to join the team".

"Anything is possible," Waugh said. "I just want to give it the best I can and
the more people who participate, the more we can raise."

Waugh made his City2Surf debut last year and while "running was never my strong
point", he very much enjoyed the race and atmosphere.

"I spent 20 years away playing cricket so it was great to do the City2Surf and
see the way people get together, have fun and work together for the event," he
said. "We had a small [foundation] team of 30 or 40 and it made me think 'this
has the potential to get bigger' - to raise awareness of the Steve Waugh
Foundation, raise money for children with rare diseases and have a great day
out."

There are 8000 known rare diseases - those that occur in one in 10,000 or more
people - and the foundation estimates they affect about 200,000 Australian
children.

The foundation (stevewaughfoundation.com.au) has helped Christopher and Sharen
Farrell, of St Marys, by presenting them with a Kia Carnival people-mover
modified to fit wheelchairs for their sons Bradley, 14, and Thomas, 12.

"The boys have Arts syndrome, which is a rare genetic disease causing hearing
and sight impairment, muscle weakness, mental disability and increased risk of
infection and they are the only two kids alive in Australia, and possibly the
world, with this condition," Waugh said. "It took their parents nine years to
get a diagnosis and the life expectancy of kids with Arts syndrome is only about
10 years."

Those who enter the City2Surf by June 9 qualify for an early-bird offer - to
have their race pack posted to them (register on city2surf.com.au).

The Sun-Herald City2Surf is presented by Westpac and supported by New Balance,
Rebel Sport, Gatorade, Jockey, Berlei, RSVP, Nova 969, One HD, 2UE, Fitness
First, Sheraton on the Park Sydney, NSW Government, Events NSW, City of Sydney,
Waverley and Woollahra councils.

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Providing support ... Steve Waugh (left) and his wife, Lynette
(right), presented the Farrell family with a modified people-mover. Photo: Jack
Atley

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2010 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              306 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                             August 26, 2016 Friday

Washington: â[#x20ac]oeTogether we are powerful. Please join me.â[#x20ac] -
#Path2Cures Guides One Rare Disease Patient Toward Advocacy

LENGTH: 721  words

DATELINE: New York



 Washington, DC: Energy & Commerce Committee United States House of
Representatives  has issued the following press release:



 Sharon Rose has been seeking treatments for the last six years for four rare
diseases. It wasn't until recently that she decided to become a patient
advocate. Sharon shares her story in The Mighty, explaining her new interest in
legislation and the work Congress does to spur treatment options.





 "I was in a new arena and out of my comfort zone," Sharon wrote. "However, I
realized that in order to advocate for my care, it was a necessary step, and I
was finding it interesting!" But the biggest step for Sharon was meeting with
her representatives in Congress.



 "The idea of walking into a government office makes me so nervous, but so does
a future without proper health care for the conditions I face daily," Sharon
wrote.



 Advocacy is an important tool in the effort to deliver change, and it's been a
key component of the effort to deliver #CuresNow. Every patient story makes a
difference. It's like Sharon says, "Together we are powerful. Please join me."
Rare disease has changed my life in many ways, but the most unexpected recent
change has been my interest in laws and political issues regarding health care
and treatment options. You see, I am a right brainer. I enjoy and flourish in
the arts. I've never jumped for joy while taking a math or science class. I can
recall looking up medical terminology after diagnoses and subsequent MRI or test
reports years ago, and how strange it was for me to learn about medicine. I was
in a new arena and out of my comfort zone.



 However, I realized that in order to advocate for my care, it was a necessary
step, and I was finding it interesting! I was being forced to expand in ways I
had never imagined. Being creative had always been my focus whether in study, or
for fun. But more recently, as a patient and advocate, I've experienced another
surprising shift in interests. Why, you ask?  Because for the past 6+ years,
I've been relentlessly and urgently seeking treatments as a patient for
Klippel-Feil syndrome, cervical dystonia, Ehlers-Danlos syndrome, and vasculitis
- all rare diseases. Time and time again, I have found little understanding or
relief. I've traveled to five states seeking care. Yes, there are a few great
doctors out there. Great doctors who have limited time, limited accurate
information, and limited treatment and medication options to offer me as a
patient dealing with such an odd laundry list of rare conditions.



 I've been at a personal stand-still regarding my care for well over a year.
After putting down the paint brushes to focus on MRI reports and the like, I
have come to a dead end regarding what might help the chronic, debilitating pain
and muscle spasms that send a constant 911 signal throughout my body.



 I know I am not alone in this.



 Care options for those with rare conditions are extremely limited.



 Complaining about it and doing nothing will get us nowhere. However, for myself
and others in the rare disease community and beyond, there is something we can
do to help ourselves!



 You see, there is a bill, the 21st Century Cures Act H.R. 6,  that is critical
for the improvement of care for Americans as a whole, but namely for rare
disease patients who are desperately in need of this. In July 2015, the bill
passed the House. This fall, when summer recess ends, we need the Senate to pass
this bill for it to move forward. This bill needs to be implemented and we are
running out of time!



 I've been preparing to meet with my legislators personally, to urge them to
help pass this bill now. Gulp. I'm completely out of my comfort zone!



 The idea of walking into a government office makes me so nervous, but so does a
future without proper health care for the conditions I face daily. &hellip;



 Of the 7,000 rare diseases that affect 30 million Americans, only 5 percent of
rare diseases have an FDA approved treatment. The 21st Century Cures Act has
been developed to help us, but it needs our support now. If I can, you can! Not
to mention, new treatment options would allow me to feel well enough to get back
to other passions. Together we are powerful. Please join me.



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact:

 editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              307 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                             August 26, 2016 Friday

Washington: â[#x20ac]oeTogether we are powerful. Please join me.â[#x20ac] -
#Path2Cures Guides One Rare Disease Patient Toward Advocacy

LENGTH: 721  words

DATELINE: New York



 Washington, DC: Energy & Commerce Committee United States House of
Representatives  has issued the following press release:



 Sharon Rose has been seeking treatments for the last six years for four rare
diseases. It wasn't until recently that she decided to become a patient
advocate. Sharon shares her story in The Mighty, explaining her new interest in
legislation and the work Congress does to spur treatment options.





 "I was in a new arena and out of my comfort zone," Sharon wrote. "However, I
realized that in order to advocate for my care, it was a necessary step, and I
was finding it interesting!" But the biggest step for Sharon was meeting with
her representatives in Congress.



 "The idea of walking into a government office makes me so nervous, but so does
a future without proper health care for the conditions I face daily," Sharon
wrote.



 Advocacy is an important tool in the effort to deliver change, and it's been a
key component of the effort to deliver #CuresNow. Every patient story makes a
difference. It's like Sharon says, "Together we are powerful. Please join me."
Rare disease has changed my life in many ways, but the most unexpected recent
change has been my interest in laws and political issues regarding health care
and treatment options. You see, I am a right brainer. I enjoy and flourish in
the arts. I've never jumped for joy while taking a math or science class. I can
recall looking up medical terminology after diagnoses and subsequent MRI or test
reports years ago, and how strange it was for me to learn about medicine. I was
in a new arena and out of my comfort zone.



 However, I realized that in order to advocate for my care, it was a necessary
step, and I was finding it interesting! I was being forced to expand in ways I
had never imagined. Being creative had always been my focus whether in study, or
for fun. But more recently, as a patient and advocate, I've experienced another
surprising shift in interests. Why, you ask?  Because for the past 6+ years,
I've been relentlessly and urgently seeking treatments as a patient for
Klippel-Feil syndrome, cervical dystonia, Ehlers-Danlos syndrome, and vasculitis
- all rare diseases. Time and time again, I have found little understanding or
relief. I've traveled to five states seeking care. Yes, there are a few great
doctors out there. Great doctors who have limited time, limited accurate
information, and limited treatment and medication options to offer me as a
patient dealing with such an odd laundry list of rare conditions.



 I've been at a personal stand-still regarding my care for well over a year.
After putting down the paint brushes to focus on MRI reports and the like, I
have come to a dead end regarding what might help the chronic, debilitating pain
and muscle spasms that send a constant 911 signal throughout my body.



 I know I am not alone in this.



 Care options for those with rare conditions are extremely limited.



 Complaining about it and doing nothing will get us nowhere. However, for myself
and others in the rare disease community and beyond, there is something we can
do to help ourselves!



 You see, there is a bill, the 21st Century Cures Act H.R. 6,  that is critical
for the improvement of care for Americans as a whole, but namely for rare
disease patients who are desperately in need of this. In July 2015, the bill
passed the House. This fall, when summer recess ends, we need the Senate to pass
this bill for it to move forward. This bill needs to be implemented and we are
running out of time!



 I've been preparing to meet with my legislators personally, to urge them to
help pass this bill now. Gulp. I'm completely out of my comfort zone!



 The idea of walking into a government office makes me so nervous, but so does a
future without proper health care for the conditions I face daily. &hellip;



 Of the 7,000 rare diseases that affect 30 million Americans, only 5 percent of
rare diseases have an FDA approved treatment. The 21st Century Cures Act has
been developed to help us, but it needs our support now. If I can, you can! Not
to mention, new treatment options would allow me to feel well enough to get back
to other passions. Together we are powerful. Please join me.



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact:

 editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              308 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                          November 12, 2014 Wednesday

ArQule Announces Collaboration with NIH for Clinical Development of ARQ 092 in
Proteus Syndrome

LENGTH: 807  words


Washington, D.C.: Biotechnology Industry Organization has issued the following
news release:

Agreement builds upon pre-clinical data showing shutdown of AKT signaling and
reduction of cell viability

ArQule, Inc. (NASDAQ: ARQL) today announced an agreement with the National Human
Genome Research Institute (NHGRI) of the National Institutes of Health (NIH)
providing for the clinical development of ARQ 092, an orally available,
selective small molecule inhibitor of AKT, in Proteus syndrome, a rare disease
characterized by overgrowth of the skeleton, skin, adipose tissue and central
nervous system.

The NIH Proteus syndrome team is led by researchers who originally discovered
the somatic single (point) mutation in the AKT 1 oncogene that causes Proteus
syndrome1. On that basis, the NIH entered into a collaboration with ArQule
focused on pre-clinical testing of ARQ 092. Results from that pre-clinical
research recently presented by the NIH team at the 2014 meeting of the American
Society of Human Genetics (ASHG, Abstract # 2180M2) demonstrate that treatment
with ARQ 092 caused a rapid shutdown of AKT signaling and a reduction in the
viability of Proteus syndrome cells taken from patients compared to untreated
diseased cells. These findings represent pre-clinical proof-of-concept for
advancement of ARQ 092 into clinical testing in this indication.

"This collaboration provides the opportunity to clinically investigate the
therapeutic impact of ARQ 092 in a rare, genetic disorder that has no approved
therapy and for which the only current treatment is surgery," said Dr. Leslie G.
Biesecker, M.D., Chief of the Medical Genomics and Metabolic Genetics Branch at
the National Human Genome Research Institute. "We believe the goal of treatment
for Proteus syndrome will be early diagnosis and administration of therapy over
years to mitigate the abnormal cell signaling initiated by the point mutation."

"The need for medical treatment of Proteus syndrome is high," said Brian
Schwartz, M.D., chief medical officer of ArQule. "Characterized by non-cancerous
overgrowths of tissue, Proteus syndrome is the first non-oncology rare
indication to enter clinical testing for ARQ 092. We are hopeful that
intervention in a single aberrant pathway responsible for this disease may hold
potential for a therapeutic advance."

The NIH is currently developing a protocol for a Phase 1 trial with ARQ 092 in
this indication, with input from ArQule. The Company will also be providing
compound for the planned NIH clinical trial, which is currently expected to
begin in 2015.

About Proteus Syndrome

According to the patient advocacy and support group, the Proteus syndrome
Foundation (http://www.proteus-syndrome.org/), the condition was named for
Proteus, the Greek god who could transform his shape. Patients experience
changes in the shapes of certain body structures over time, including abnormal,
often asymmetric, massive growth (overgrowth) of the skeleton, skin, adipose
tissue and central nervous system out of proportion to the rest of the body,
which may appear normal. Although patients may have minimal or no manifestations
at birth, the disease develops and becomes apparent in early childhood (6-18
months) and rapidly progresses with intense growth in the first ten years of
life. It is primarily a childhood-onset disease but there are very few living
affected adults.

Proteus syndrome is a rare condition with an incidence of less than 1 in 1
million people worldwide. Only a few hundred individuals have been reported in
the medical literature. At this time, there are more than 120 documented cases
worldwide, but because not all cases are documented, it is not known how many
individuals have this syndrome. The incidence of Proteus syndrome classifies it
as a rare disorder, defined by the National Organization of Rare Diseases (NORD)
as any disease affecting fewer than 200,000 Americans.

About ARQ 092 and the AKT Pathway

ARQ 092 is an orally available, selective small molecule inhibitor of the AKT
kinase. The AKT pathway when abnormally activated is implicated in multiple
oncogenic processes such as cell proliferation and apoptosis. This pathway has
emerged as a target of potential therapeutic relevance for compounds that
inhibit its activity, which has been linked to a variety of cancers as well as
to select non-oncology indications.

ARQ 092, the lead compound in ArQule's AKT program, has completed Phase 1a
clinical testing and has advanced into Phase 1b expansion testing in cohorts of
patients with endometrial cancer, lymphoma and tumors harboring either AKT or
PI3K mutations. A number of next-generation compounds in the Company's AKT
program are in early to late stages of pre-clinical development.

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              309 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                        Duluth News-Tribune (Minnesota)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           October 15, 2009 Thursday

Former Duluth East football star fighting rare disease

BYLINE: John Myers, Duluth News Tribune, Minn.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 675 words


Oct. 15--Matt Kilpo, the speedy quarterback who helped Duluth East High School
battle to its first-ever state tournament appearance in 2007, now is battling a
rare bacterial disease in a Duluth hospital.

Kilpo, 19, now a University of Minnesota sophomore studying environmental
science, became ill in recent weeks and eventually was diagnosed with Lemierre's
syndrome. He came home from college with a sore throat on Oct. 1 and entered St.
Mary's Medical Center on Oct. 7, where he's been ever since.

"Thank you everyone for your support and prayers for Matt," wrote his brother,
Andy Kilpo, on a Facebook page titled "Pray for Matt Kilpo.'' Earlier this week
Andy wrote that Matt was doing better "but he is still in intensive care and
needs your prayers. He has been diagnosed with Lemierre's syndrome; this is very
rare, but he is in good hands at the hospital."

A spokesman for the family said Wednesday that Matt's parents, Bob and Karen
Kilpo, report he is "improving somewhat'' at mid-week. And the Kilpos thanked
everyone -- from doctors and nurses to friends and family -- for their strong
support.

Friends and relatives have been writing get-well messages on the Facebook page
that nearly 600 people had joined by Wednesday.

Experts say the disease usually strikes otherwise healthy patients,
predominantly men between the ages of 15 and 30, with a complex infection. While
patients usually respond well to early antibiotics, the problem is that many
patients don't seek care soon enough. Moreover, most doctors rarely, if ever,
see the disease and thus don't always diagnose it quickly.

Medical literature says the disease is believed to strike fewer than one in a
million people. But there have been five cases at St. Luke's hospital alone in
recent years, said Dr. Linda Van Etta, a St. Luke's infectious disease expert.

"I think it's more common than we had believed. We're seeing about one case a
year now,'' Van Etta said, adding that there seems to be a link between
Lemierre's and the Epstein-Barr virus that causes severe mononucleosis.

Lemierre's is caused by a bacterium called Fusobacterium necrophorum that
normally lives harmlessly in people's mouths but, for reasons unknown to
scientists, can begin to attack the body. It usually presents as tonsillitis at
first but can rapidly spread to the lungs, skin, hips and even brain. If not
treated properly, it can be extremely painful, even fatal.

Lemierre's syndrome was formally identified in 1936 but nearly vanished by the
1960s, thanks to widespread use of antibiotics like penicillin to treat sore
throats, where the disease often first appears. Lemierre's may have made a
slight comeback in the last 20 years, experts say, after antibiotic use was
scaled back due to concerns over emerging drug-resistant bacteria.

Moreover, while certain antibiotics work well -- namely, metronitizol -- other,
newer antibiotics don't always work to quash the bug, Van Etta said.

Van Etta said that physicians should look for three symptoms that foretell
Lemierre's: severe pharyngitis or tonsillitis; a tender and swollen neck on one
side; and lung problems such as early pneumonia that show up in X-rays.

The News Tribune in 2007 wrote about UMD student Meredith Estes who was
diagnosed with Lemierre's after being very ill for weeks. The disease caused an
abscess in her brain. She had to undergo major brain surgery and required heavy
doses of antibiotics to kill bacteria in her body. But Estes made a quick and
full recovery.

"All of our patients [with Lemierre's] have survived,'' Van Etta said. "We've
come a long way since Dr. Lemierre lost 18 of his 20 patients."

To see more of the Duluth News Tribune, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.duluthnewstribune.com/. Copyright (c) 2009, Duluth News Tribune,
Minn. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints, email
tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax
to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave.,
Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20091015-DU-Former-Duluth-East-football-star-fighting-rare-disease-1015

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DU


                       Copyright 2009 Duluth News-Tribune


                              310 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                              The Sentinel (Stoke)

                                 July 25, 2002

Matthew seeks support from US sufferers of rare disease

BYLINE: Alcock David (Sentinel)

SECTION: NEWS; PEOPLE; Others; Pg. 3-NEWS

LENGTH: 495 words


Matthew seeks support from US sufferers of rare disease Charity funds
fact-finding trip for brave teenager with genetic disorder BY DAVID ALCOCK
BRAVE: Matthew Wildsmith has one of the world's rarest illnesses and is
travelling to the US to meet others with the same condition Picture: Clare
LewisA BRAVE teenager who has undergone many operations for a rare illness is
set fora unique meeting with fellow sufferers in America.

Matthew Wildsmith, from Cross Heath, Newcastle, is believed to be one of only
100 people with Langer-Giedeon Syndrome worldwide o and one of only three in
this country.

The 18-year-old has suffered since birth with the genetic disorder. But the
illness was not diagnosed until Matthew was 11-years-old because it is so rare.

Now, thanks to a donation of more than £2,500 from the Caudwell Charitable
Trust, Matthew, his mother Angela and brother Nathan will be flying to
Clevelandthis weekend.

They will be meeting specialists and fellow sufferers to gain more knowledge
about the illness.

Angela said: "At the moment, we are very much in the dark about the syndrome,
but we are hoping that what we find out we can pass on to Matthew's doctors so
they have a better understanding of how to help him.

"We have been told the life expectancy for someone with his type of
Langer-Giedeon Syndrome is not normally beyond 30. But he may be able to live
longer.

"The Caudwell Charitable Trust has been fantastic giving us this money. I would
also like to thank ward 103 at the North Staffordshire Hospital, where I work,
because they have done a lot of fundraising for this trip.

"Even the patients have taken part in raffles." The Cleveland trip will mark
thefirst time sufferers of Langer-Giedeon have actually met up to draw support
fromeach other. Matthew is unlucky in that he has the worst type of the
syndrome, which has left him battling physical and learning difficulties.

Nathan, Matthew's 20 year-old brother, said: "Matthew has had many operations
onhis ankles and legs. He has been in plaster for weeks on end.

"He cannot walk more than a few yards so he has a wheelchair to help him get
around.

"He has a mental age of five and is also autistic. He also has impaired vision
and has had operations to aid his hearing. When he was young doctors said he
would never walk or talk. But mum got funding and converted a room in our house
as a treatment area.

"Now we have been presented with this brilliant opportunity for Matthew and
ourselves to try to learn as much as we can to understand the treatments needed
and what we can do to help.

" Matthew is such a friendly person to be around, it is difficult to see him
making such an effort when other people just misunderstand him." John Caudwell,
head of the Caudwell Group, said: "Following this year's charity ball which has
increased our total funds to over £1 million, we can now offer even more help to
people like Matthew." Caption:

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 2002 The Sentinel (Stoke)


                              311 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                       May 14, 2014 Wednesday 6:30 AM EST

Rare Disease Communications: Disease Awareness Initiative Launched for Familial
Chylomicronemia Syndrome

LENGTH: 589  words


May 14 -- Rare Disease Communications (publisher of Rare Disease Report) has
launched a disease awareness initiative to educate U.S. physicians about a rare
condition called Familial Chylomicronemia Syndrome (FCS).



The Web site, http://fcs.raredr.com/, is designed to increase FCS awareness
among healthcare professionals (HCPs), to educate them on the early signs and
symptoms of FCS, and to stress the importance of patients adhering to a strict
low-fat diet. Rare Disease Communications developed content for the site.

The site includes 11 videos from a panel of FCS experts, including Daniel Rader,
MD, Perelman School of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia; Ira
Goldberg, MD, Division of Endocrinology, Diabetes, & Metabolism, NYU Langone
Medical Center, New York City; and Wahida Karmally, RD, Institute of Human
Nutrition, Columbia University, New York City.

FCS is a very rare hereditary condition in which those affected lack a properly
functioning, lipoprotein lipase (LPL), an enzyme that clears triglycerides from
plasma. The disruption of the enzyme activity leads to very high concentrations
of triglycerides, and particularly, chylomicrons in the blood plasma
(chylomicronemia).

FCS is also referred to familial LPL deficiency (LPLD), or hyperlipoproteinemia
Type 1. In the new FCS Disease Awareness Initiative, clinicians can learn more
about:

* Genetics, prevalence, and natural history of FCS

* Clinical signs and symptoms of FCS

* Treatment options available to lower the risk of pancreatitis

* Resources available to clinicians treating patients with FCS, including
information about patient registries, references to over 30 peer-reviewed
articles, and a video library.

Early recognition is important for this very rare condition. Children with
unexplained high levels of triglycerides, skin rashes (xanthoma), or creamy
blood samples (due to high levels of chylomicrons) should be tested for FCS. An
FCS registry is also available to better understand the natural history of this
condition.

"We are delighted to announce the launch of the FCS Disease Awareness
Initiative," said Peter Ciszewski, President of Rare Disease Communications,
Plainsboro, N.J. "Hopefully, this initiative will raise awareness of this silent
disease and bring attention to the patient registry that can help us better
understand the natural history of this disease."

"The mission of Rare Disease Report is to raise awareness of orphan conditions
so that patients will be diagnosed and treated more efficiently. This website
fulfills that mission," said James Radke, Vice President of Editorial at Rare
Disease Communications, adding, "The website educates endocrinologists, GPs,
lipidologists, and others about FCS so that when they see a patient with
unexplained pancreatitis or a creamy blood sample, they will be better prepared
to suspect FCS and run the proper diagnostic tests."

"Web sites likes this one are what Rare Disease Communications does best. We can
create the content and make sure it gets to its intended audience using our
strong social media presence," Ciszewski said.

It is estimated that 1 in 1 million people are born with FCS. Currently, the
standard of care for FCS patients is a very low fat diet (= 15% by calories), in
which patients consume less than 20-25 grams of fat per day. However, most
patients find it very difficult to adhere to such a diet. Patients should also
avoid substances known to increase the level of triglycerides in the blood, such
as alcohol, diuretics, systemic steroids, and estrogens.

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2014 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              312 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                           Edmonton Journal (Alberta)

                            August 13, 2013 Tuesday
                                 Early Edition

Family wins drug-cost coverage; Province will fund treatment of girl's rare
medical condition

BYLINE: Sarah O'Donnell, Edmonton Journal

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 704 words


St. Albert father Dane Sadownyk picked up his threeyear-old daughter Aleena and
"just hugged her" Monday morning when the family learned the Alberta government
will fund a crucial treatment for her rare medical condition.

"It was an extremely emotional moment," Sadownyk said. "I was so elated. It felt
like I could come up for a breath of air. That's what it felt like, that I can
breathe again."

Aleena's family and their supporters have been lobbying Alberta Health for a
month to approve treatment for Maroteaux-Lamy Syndrome, a rare disease that
means she lacks glycosaminoglycan, an enzyme that helps break down cellular
waste.

Instead, the waste builds up, restricting movements, damaging organs and
clouding eyesight, among other serious health complications. Without treatment,
sufferers see their life expectancy cut short. Naglazyme, a synthetic enzyme
approved in the U.S. but not Canada, can help break down that cellular buildup.

Though not a cure, weekly infusions could help prevent Aleena's symptoms from
getting worse, the family's supporters say. Four other provinces have agreed to
fund the treatment for seven children with the syndrome - also known as
mucopolysaccharidosis type VI or MPS VI - and Aleena's family was pushing
Alberta to quickly approve the expensive but critical treatment, which is
expected to initially cost about $300,000 a year.

Sadownyk, who was in Connecticut Monday with his family attending a conference
on MPS VI when they heard the news, said they are feeling immense relief. Aleena
was diagnosed with MPS VI in April.

"Today is definitely a day we are joyful for her and look forward to the
future," he said. Andrew McFayden, director of the Isaac Foundation, went
through a similar struggle in Ontario when his son Isaac was diagnosed with MPS
VI as a toddler and was the first to receive treatment in Canada. He stepped in
to assist the Sadownyks with their case and said he shared their feeling of
elation Monday.

But McFayden also said the happiness is mixed with frustration that it took so
long and that the family's supporters felt they had to mount a public campaign
with the support of MLAs such as Wildrose health critic Heather Forsyth, after
the family's original funding application through the Alberta Rare Disease
Program was denied.

"To me, that's a big problem there still hasn't been a process put in place by
Health Canada for provinces to deal with funding these rare diseases," McFayden
said.

Health Minister Fred Horne said Monday he signed off on the funding for Aleena's
treatment through Alberta's Short Term Evaluative Drug Therapy program, instead
of the Rare Disease program, because Aleena's case involves a drug not licensed
for sale in Canada.

Horne said he weighed several factors, including the clinical evidence, the
rarity of the disease, affordability of the drug and the best interest of the
patient. Public pressure was not one of those factors, he said.

"I think Albertans would expect their minister and government to make these
decisions based on evidence and looking at each case individually," Horne said.
"I'm pleased it's able to be a positive outcome in this particular case."

Horne said he plans to talk about the need for an orphan drug program - a term
used to describe medications for rare diseases - with other provincial health
ministers and federal Health Minister Rona Ambrose.

"It's an issue where we really need to collaborate," Horne said. "There are only
going to be more of these situations in the future."

Forsyth, MLA for Calgary-Fish Creek, said Alberta Health must work to make the
provincial system easier to navigate for families who suddenly find themselves
seeking help with a rare condition. "The whole thing is just convoluted," said
Forsyth.

NDP health critic Dave Eggen said Alberta Health also needs to speed up the
process. "I'm glad something moved," the Edmonton-Calder MLA said. "But in the
future I don't want to see people's health compromised by being run through the
wringer again."

With Aleena's funding approved, the Sadownyks' next learning curve will be tied
to her treatment.

"This is something that is new territory for us," her father said. "We'll
learn."

sodonnell@edmontonjournal. com twitter.com/scodonnell

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: / Aleena Sadownyk;

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2013 Edmonton Journal, a division of Canwest MediaWorks Publication
                                      Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              313 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                    The News

                            March 29, 2017 Wednesday

Heartbroken family of terminally-ill Paulsgrove girl say funding change will
condemn her to death'

BYLINE: Tom Cotterill

LENGTH: 644  words


A HEARTBROKEN family of a little girl with a rare terminal disease is this
morning begging the NHS not to cut funding to potentially life-saving research.

Determined nine-year-old Maddison Crockford-Reid has such a rare condition -
Sanfilippo Syndrome - that there is no cure.

Her devastated family have been struggling to come to terms with the fact she is
unlikely to make it past her late teens since her shock diagnosis in August
2015.

But for the past few months, new clinical trials for a potential cure had given
the family a much-needed glimmer of hope.

However, in a fresh blow the NHS and the National Institute for Health and Care
Excellence (NICE) revealed they will no longer stump out cash for the most
costly treatments, as of Saturday, April 1.

Maddi's older sister, Jorden Evans, 21, said she and her loved ones had been
left reeling by the news, saying it was a death sentence for Maddi.

Jorden, of Cheltenham Road, Paulsgrove, said: We're just shell-shocked. My mum
is absolutely devastated and hasn't stopped crying.

Having this funding is a massive glimmer of hope for both our families and
families affected by rare diseases.

It just feels as though this tiny glimmer of hope has been snatched away from
us.'

In the UK there are only 24 people affected by Sanflippo Syndrome, with a mere
handful having the same ultra-rare version of the condition Maddi has.

Maddi illness means she will eventually lose the ability to walk, talk, see and
hear - dealing a hammer blow to her loving family.

Jorden added: This act by NHS England and NICE is traumatising to say the least.

It would leave families with absolutely no hope for their children.

In our personal circumstances, it would halt Maddison's current clinical trial
and would stop all future cure' trials from taking place.

This would effectively be leaving the disease to simply take it course' and thus
leaving her no hope or chance of survival.'

The move will see an introduction of a £100,000 quality-adjusted life year'
threshold for medicines evaluated as part of NICE's highly specialised
technologies programme, which assesses treatments for ultra-rare diseases like
Maddi's.

Campaigners say this threshold would stop the flow of expensive new medicines
reaching patients most desperately in need, with most treatments costing upwards
of £500,000.

However, charity leaders claim this is a small price to pay to give the few
families in Britain, coping with ultra-rare illnesses, extra time with their
loved ones.

Christine Lavery is the group chief executive of The Society for
Mucopolysaccharide Diseases (MPS) which supports Maddi's family.

In a scathing criticism, she branded the proposals an abuse of human rights'.

She is now urging the people of Portsmouth to rally behind Maddi and contact
their local MPs, calling for the proposals to be axed.

Speaking to The News last night, Mrs Lavery said: To penalise these families and
children for the misfortune to have these rare diseases is incomprehensible.

Being born with an ultra-rare disease, a disease affecting less than 110 people
in England, is not a lifestyle choice; it is no-one's fault; it happens albeit
very rarely; it happened to my son. At that time, there was no treatment and
Simon died aged seven years.

I can only imagine now how it might be to be faced with a child with an ultra-
rare disease who could be treated with a highly-specialised medicine but is
denied treatment on cost grounds.

The pain for the family of seeing their child condemned to death by Andrew
Dillon, Chief Executive of NICE; Simon Stevens, Chief Executive of NHS England
and the UK Government is unimaginable.'

She added: This is an abuse of people's human rights.'

Jorden said she is writing to Portsmouth North MP Penny Mordaunt, appealing for
help.

She added she wants there to be a pause' to the funding proposals to allow the
government to reconsider them.

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: JPNS


                       Copyright 2017 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved


                              314 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                      North Shore News (British Columbia)

                             April 27, 2008 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Thriving in B.C. - dying in Ontario; Where you live in Canada determines access
to specialized drugs

BYLINE: Bethany Lindsay, North Shore News

SECTION: SUNDAY FOCUS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 2011  words


For an unlucky kid, Trey Purcell still knows how to catch a break here and
there.

Four-year-old Trey suffers from Hunter syndrome, an extremely rare
enzyme-deficiency disorder, that if left untreated, would twist his hands into
claws, cause his joints to seize up, obscure his sight and hearing, and
eventually kill him sometime in his teens or 20s.

But Trey and his family have the good fortune to live in British Columbia, where
our medical system offers a treatment for the disease. Every week, Trey travels
to B.C. Children's Hospital to receive an enzyme-replacement therapy marketed as
Elaprase. Mom Deb Purcell said that in the year since Trey started the therapy,
the progressive symptoms of his disease have virtually stopped in their tracks.

"It's been amazing. From what we can see, and from all the tests he's had
recently, nothing is getting worse, and lots have improved, actually," Purcell
said. The stiffness in his joints has diminished, he's starting to get taller,
and he's talking a lot more.

But not all Canadian provinces have agreed to cover Elaprase treatments, which
cost about half a million dollars each year for one child, and can run as high
as a million dollars a year for a teenager. At least 10 children in Ontario
suffer from Hunter syndrome, but their province's health ministry refuses to
fund treatment for it.

To further complicate matters, the Common Drug Review, an independent agency
that provides advice to Canadian governments, recommended against provincial
funding for Elaprase in January. The review said that the drug hadn't been
tested on enough patients to prove its worth.

Canada's patchwork policy on drugs like Elaprase has led North Vancouver Liberal
MP Don Bell to introduce a private member's motion urging the federal government
to look into creating a nationwide policy on testing and funding drugs to treat
rare diseases, something that moms like Purcell believe is long overdue.

- - -

Trey was diagnosed with Hunter syndrome two years ago. As a baby, he'd had an
umbilical hernia, a sign of the disease that nonetheless is fairly common among
healthy children. That was followed by a series of ear infections, another
symptom, but again, not uncommon.

The family took Trey to see several doctors. "They all said 'Don't worry about
it, go home,'"Purcell said.

But during a search for a new pediatrician, the Purcells ran into one doctor who
had some experience with disorders like Hunter syndrome. "Trey had a big tummy,
and he sort of had a look," Purcell said. A big head and enlarged organs are key
indicators of the disease.

That doctor recommended that Trey visit UBC's biochemical disease clinic. After
a series of blood and urine tests, the family had their diagnosis.

"We were just devastated," Purcell said. "I've never been hit that hard by
anything in my life."

Hunter syndrome is medically known as mucopolysaccharidosis II, or MPS II. It's
one of a family of nine MPS disorders that result when a child is born without
one of the many enzymes necessary to break down long, chain-like sugars called
mucopolysaccharides.

"These sugars make up a large component of what is in between cells, what forms
the structure of the body," said Dr. Lorne Clarke, the director of the
provincial medical genetics program at UBC, and a leading expert in MPS.

Without the necessary enzymes for dealing with mucopolysaccharides, "the body
keeps on producing them, but they can't break them down, and they go into
storage," Clarke said.

The sugars will start to build up in the body's organs and tissues, particularly
in the skeleton and joints. In some cases, storage in the brain can lead to
severe mental retardation. Eventually, the chemical overload will kill the
patient.

All of the diseases in the MPS family are passed genetically from parents to
their children. Both mom and dad must be carriers, and each of their children
has a one in four chance of having the disease.

Hunter syndrome, on the other hand is passed down through the mother's sex
chromosomes. That means that every son of a Hunter syndrome carrier has a 50 per
cent chance of getting sick.

Thankfully, Trey's little brother Avery tested negative for the disease as an
infant, and because Hunter syndrome is X-linked, his baby sister Sadie has
virtually no chance of inheriting the disorder.

Drugs like Elaprase work by continuously replacing the enzymes missing in MPS
patients, clearing up stockpiles of mucopolysaccharides.

"It's the purified enzyme. It's made by having living cells produce them. The
protein is then isolated and then injected weekly into patients," Clarke said.

Elaprase has only been available to patients for three years now, so doctors
aren't yet able to predict how it will affect the long-term prognoses of
children suffering from Hunter syndrome. What they do know is that kids
receiving the therapy have better joint movement and less organ swelling.

"The drugs are not a cure, at this point, but they definitely modulate the
disease," Clarke said. "They're able to reduce some symptoms, but not all."

- - -

Of the nine disorders in the MPS family, three can now be treated using
enzyme-replacement therapies similar to Elaprase. Kirsten Harkins' 12-year-old
son Nicklas was diagnosed with MPS I seven years ago, and he's been on
Aldurazyme enzyme-replacement therapy since the summer of 2003.

The Harkins family was living in Germany when they first noticed something was
wrong with five-year-old Nicklas.

"He would play hockey and score a goal, and he would try to raise his arms over
his head, like kids do when they score a goal, but his arms wouldn't go up very
high," Kirsten Harkins said.

She also noticed that his fingers were starting to curl at the tips, and he was
walking on his toes more than normal kids. The family decided to take Nicklas to
specialists at Humboldt University in Berlin, but didn't get the official
diagnosis until they'd moved back home to North Vancouver.

The news came in the form of a letter from Germany. "It's definitely not the
best way to receive life-changing diagnosis, with a German-translated letter in
the mail," Harkins said.

"It's hard even thinking back to that time, because it was a very difficult
time. You have to readjust your ideas about what your child's life will hold,
and how things will change for him and the rest of the family."

The family tracked down Dr. Clarke, and learned about Aldurazyme, which was then
in clinical trial. They also learned that they were too late to get Nicklas into
the trial.

"That was devastating. It was really hard to accept that," Harkins said. She
called Clarke almost every day, begging for a spot in the trial for Nicklas, but
to no avail.

When the drug was eventually approved in 2003, Nicklas was finally able to get
his first dose of Aldurazyme.

"It was a huge day in our life, the first day that he got the treatment, and we
knew that it would halt the progression of the disease," Harkins said.

Five years later, Nicklas is still playing hockey. He still can't lift his arms
as high as other kids after scoring a goal, but without enzyme-replacement
therapy, he likely would have been confined to a wheelchair by now. Doctors
originally predicted he would live to be 20 or 25 years old, but now that most
of his symptoms have stopped progressing, he could live much longer.

Harkins is the president of the Canadian MPS Society, and she's been
instrumental in lobbying provincial governments to provide enzyme replacement
therapy for MPS patients. Her protests at the Ontario health minister's officer
no doubt influenced that province to begin providing Aldurazyme for MPS I
patients.

"It is exhausting to not only have to go through the diagnosis of a child with a
rare disease . . . and then, on top of that, to expect the family to fight and
fight and fight for a treatment that then becomes available. I think it's
unconscionable. I'm still absolutely astounded that governments will refuse to
fund these kinds of treatments for kids who will die without them," Harkins
said.

Fellow MPS mom Purcell pointed out the contrast between the Canadian medical
system's approaches to cancer and rare diseases.

"If a parent finds out that their kid has cancer, they just go right in and
start treatment. They're able to deal with the disease and the repercussions of
that, and they don't have to fight to get treatment," Purcell said.

Both mothers said they're pleased that MP Bell has taken the lead in developing
a national policy for dealing with rare diseases.

Bell's motion, which will enter a second hour of debate on May 6, and will be
voted on May 7, calls for the government to look into a specific fund for drugs
to treat rare diseases. It also asks for standards for conducting clinical
trials using only a small number of patients. Typical drug trials involve
thousands of patients, but it's only possible to test each MPS drug on fewer
than 100 people.

Bell knows firsthand how rare diseases can affect families, and how important it
is to support research into treatment. His grandson Dylan suffered from
pulmonary hypertension, an uncommon disorder that causes constriction of the
blood vessels surrounding the heart.

Dylan died last summer, just a day after his 12th birthday.

"I was aware of just how families are affected by this. It's hard enough for a
family to deal with a family member's disease. When you add to that there are
problems getting treatments that are available. . . ." Bell said.

"My motivation for doing this is my grandson, that his death can leave a legacy.
I'm pushing very hard to have this approved prior to the possibility of having
an election in June."

Purcell said that Bell's motion is exactly what MPS families need. "It just
means that parents aren't going to have to fight themselves, individually, case
by case, to get their kids treated."

But MPS expert Clarke said he's skeptical about how quickly anything will
change.

"The disease appears to be progressing faster than the politicians can make
decisions," he said.

- - -

North Shore residents will have two opportunities to help fund research into MPS
disorders on May 3.

Nicklas's family is presenting the sixtth annual MPS Cup fantasy hockey game at
North Shore Winter Club, beginning with a face-off at 3 p.m. Dad Todd Harkins, a
former member of the Calgary Flames, will lace up with pros and NHL veterans
including Brendan Morrison, Cliff Ronning, Kirk McLean, Richard Brodeur and Dave
Babych. Canucks star Mattias Ohlund will be rehabbing his injured knee on the
sidelines.

Fans can purchase a spot on one of the teams with a $500 ticket. The game will
be followed by a gala dinner, dance and auction at 6 p.m. at Sutton Place Hotel
in Vancouver, with tickets selling for $150.

All of the money from ticket sales will go to the Canadian MPS Society to
support research into MPS disorders. In the last six years, the proceeds from
the event have supported $275,000 worth of research.

"The support that we've received from the hockey community -- not only the
professional hockey community, but also the amateur community locally -- has
really sustained us," said Kirsten Harkins. "To have people support us gives us
hope that things will get better."

On the same afternoon, May 3, the Purcell family will be hosting the second
annual Tacos for Trey fundraiser at Lynn Valley elementary from 3 to 6 p.m. Food
and drinks will be offered by donation, and kids can jump around in the bouncy
castle, play hockey or soccer, get their faces painted or be creative at the
craft table.

They'll be raising money through a silent auction and raffles for prizes
including Canucks club tickets, a weekend at a cabin in Pender Harbour, WestJet
flights and spa treatments.

All of the money raised at the event will go to the MPS II Research Fund, a
charity within the MPS Society. Last year, the Purcells raised more than $30,000
at a similar event in their home.

"It's going to be awesome," Purcell said. Her family created the research fund
because they wanted to build an incentive for researchers to concentrate on rare
diseases like Trey's.

"We want to find a cure," Purcell said.

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:
Photo: Paul McGrath, North Shore News; Trey Purcell, front, suffers from a rare
metabolic disorder known as Hunter syndrome. His family, including brother
Avery, left, dad Ryan, sister Sadie, and mom Deb, are holding a Tacos for Trey
fundraiser for research into his disorder on May 3 at Lynn Valley elementary. ;

Photo: Paul McGrath, North Shore News; (See hard copy for photo description). ;

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2008 North Shore News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              315 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                 irishmirror.ie

                      August 30, 2016 Tuesday 11:15 AM GMT

Brave little girl battling rare disease is one of just 20 in world with same
condition;
Matilda Hatton was born with only 30 per cent kidney function and her liver was
also abnormal - she also grows at a slower rate to other children

BYLINE: By Anuji Varma

SECTION: NEWS,UK NEWS

LENGTH: 582 words


A brave little girl is battling a debilitating disease so rare that it has
affected just 20 other people in the world.

Matilda Hatton, aged seven, from Walsall, has Sensenbrenner Syndrome.

The disease means she has morphic facial features, shorter limbs and grows at a
slower rate than other children.

She was born with only 30 per cent kidney function and her liver was also
abnormal.

Over the years she has had a kidney transplant, and been fed via a tube because
she struggles to swallow food.

Little is known about the condition, reports the Birmingham Mail.

Her parents Les, 57, and Michelle, 38, who is Matilda's full-time carer, know of
only one other sufferer - in Canada.

Les, who is also a carer for his nephew, said: "We'd been warned not to look on
the internet, but we did.

"We've read so many horror stories, but we've had to try and ignore them. It's
so important to think positively.

"During that time when they didn't know what was wrong with her, we were just
living each day as it went.

Conjoined twins given little chance of survival at birth defy odds to start
school

"The doctors just didn't know what was going to happen with her and they thought
she would be on dialysis soon after her birth because of her kidney function.

"Yet she didn't need dialysis until she was four years old, and then two years
later she had her transplant.

"We thought she'd be able to eat solid food afterwards, but she still doesn't.
She tends to put things in her mouth chew it and then take it out.

"She does the same with sweets and chocolates."

Days after Matilda was born she was rushed from Stafford Hospital to Birmingham
Children's Hospital, where she has received treatment and has been monitored
ever since.

It was there that doctors finally told Les and Michelle that they believed their
daughter had Sensenbrenner Syndrome.

They were told there were only around 20 sufferers recorded since 1975.

Michelle added: "A woman from Canada messaged us one evening to say her child
also had Sensenbrenner Syndrome.

"It was such a relief to hear there was someone else out there. Her little girl
looks the spitting image of Matty.

"They were told she wouldn't survive and there was nothing that could be done.

"I think it gave them hope and reassured them that they weren't alone."

She explained: "Our little girl is bubbly and active and she doesn't let her
illness get in the way of things.

"She loves going to school, and mixes with all the other kids. She puts up a
front fighting off any tiredness she gets from the condition.

Smiling baby defies odds after doctors stopped heart for 15 hours and ran out of
space to put tubes into his tiny body

"But it does eventually takes its' toll."

Now Matilda is part of the Star Appeal by Birmingham Children's Hospital, which
is aiming to raise £3.65 million to fund a rare diseases centre at the site.

Her picture will go up in Victoria Square along with 11 other youngsters who are
also suffering from a wide range of uncommon conditions next month as part of a
fundraising exhibition.

For Matilda's family a new Rare Diseases Centre would be incredible.

It would help them to "navigate the healthcare system" and find the answers,
information and medical developments they have been searching for all of
Matilda's life.

"It will less time spent in hospital, which is great as we will have more time
to live a normal life," added Les.

To donate to the appeal log onto
http://campaign.justgiving.com/charity/bchch/starsofsteelhouselane . Or text
"rare" to 70020 (to give £3)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBMGNIRIS


                      Copyright 2016 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              316 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               London Free Press

                           February 28, 2017 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Province enhances services for people with rare diseases

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A5

LENGTH: 388  words

DATELINE: TORONTO


The Ontario government said Monday that it is improving access to specialized
care for people living with rare diseases.

Health Minister Eric Hoskins announced the opening of a new clinic for people
with Ehlers-Danlos Syndrome and the expansion of clinics for those with
inherited metabolic disorders and red blood cell disorders in Toronto.

Health Minister Eric Hoskins announced the opening of a new clinic for people
with Ehlers-Danlos Syndrome and the expansion of clinics for those with
inherited metabolic disorders and red blood cell disorders in Toronto.

"People living with these rare and complicated diseases face challenges on a
daily basis and our government is committed to providing the services and
supports that they require," said Hoskins. "These clinics are another example of
how Ontario is putting patients first to provide them with better access to high
quality of care closer to home." The Ontario government is making an initial
investment of $991,000 to support the launch of the EDS clinic and "annualized
funding" in the years ahead, Hoskins said.

EDS is a group of inherited disorders that affect the connective tissue
supporting many body parts. People with EDS are prone to chronic pain, joint
dislocation and lost vision. The province says EDS affects approximately one in
5,000 people and requires a combination of efforts to be diagnosed and treated
properly.

The new EDS clinic is run by the Hospital for Sick Children and the University
Health Network in Toronto. It will give primary care providers a single point of
contact to get information on signs of the disease, receive advice and feedback
from experts on diagnosis and treatment options and make referrals to
specialists.

"I believe this clinic is going to make a difference in the lives of both adult
and pediatric patients," Hoskins said.

The other clinics, to help patients with red blood disorders and metabolic
disorders, also will be in the University Health Network. The province is
investing $622,500 to expand those clinics.

The government defines a rare disease as a life-threatening or chronically
debilitating illness that affects approximately five people out of 10,000 and
requires special, combined efforts to enable patients to be diagnosed and
treated effectively. !@COPYRIGHT=© 2017 Sun Media Corporation. All rights
reserved.

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: / Hoskins;

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2017 London Free Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              317 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Mercury

                               September 14, 2014
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

I COULD NOT STOP EATING;
Rare condition meant Aneeba wolfed down BOTTLE of ketchup, block of butter and
spoonfuls of SALT... and still wanted more

BYLINE: ANUJI VARMA

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14,15

LENGTH: 1138 words


SCHOOLGIRL Aneeba Ahmed hid in the kitchen as she gulped down an entire bottle
of TOMATO SAUCE.

But it still wasn't enough for the youngster.

Spotting a BLOCK OF BUTTER in the fridge, she ate the lot as well.

Afterwards, she grabbed a spoon and started shovelling SALT into her mouth.

It was the only thing that would keep the hunger pangs at bay.

Because Aneeba, now 23, from Erdington, suffers from a rare disease called
Laurence-Moon-Bardet-Biedl Syndrome (LMBBS). And despite the healthy diet fed to
her by her parents, she was never satisfied, ballooning up to 16 stone when she
was aged just 10.

In the end, her mum and dad were forced to put locks on the fridge and food
cupboards.

But that still didn't stop her.

"I always found a way to get in," admits Aneeba, who is now a healthy weight
after she learned to control her eating. "I worked out how to unlock them so I
could eat what I wanted.

"To me, all that stuff tasted normal. It was the only way that I didn't feel
hungry.

"I would also eat a lot of junk food, like ice cream, and biscuits. It would be
between meals when no-one was around.

"But when I hit 17 I realised I needed to control it. I stopped eating all the
wrong stuff and started exercising to lose the extra weight."

Now Aneeba, who is studying business and enterprise at Wilson Stuart School, is
a healthy size 12 and doesn't crave the junk food she once enjoyed.

Others are not so lucky and are still battling the strange syndrome.

Aneeba's parents first realised something was wrong when she was born with extra
fingers and toes.

The student was diagnosed from an early age with LMBBS - an inherited genetic
condition that affects approximately one in 100,000 babies.

Other symptoms include hearing loss, kidney abnormalities, sight loss and
obesity.

Dad Zahir and Aneeba laugh now about her younger eating habits - but the illness
brought them great sadness, too.

For up until the age of 13, there was a risk that Aneeba had another closely
related disease which sees patients deteriorate rapidly around the age of 11.

"We never thought she would make it to her 13th birthday," recalls taxi driver
Zahir, 57.

"They were the worst two years of my life. Every day we were waiting for Aneeba
to become ill. Every cough would make us think 'This is it.' "You cannot imagine
how awful it is to live, thinking every day that the person you love is going to
die."

But by 13, the signs were so promising that Zahir and mum Perawana, 48, finally
began to relax. Every test came back positive and today Aneeba is a bright,
happy student with a promising future ahead of her. She hopes to work in IT, and
loves playing and joking with her friends and three sisters.

Although her eyesight has deteriorated, it is stable and she is able to
partially see.

Despite that, Aneeba is under constant monitoring and has regular checks-up with
a range of medical experts ranging from renal doctors to ophthalmologists to
dieticians.

She is one of thousands of patients with rare diseases treated at the Queen
Elizabeth Hospital Birmingham every year.

For many of the patients, their conditions are so complex that they need to see
a number of different specialists at different dates and at different sites
round the UK. This can be disruptive for their families and cause financial
problems.

Zahir says: "I have lost so many days of work because of taking Aneeba to
appointments. It was a worry for us as a family."

The Queen Elizabeth Hospital Birmingham Charity is raising £1 million to create
a Rare Diseases Centre at the hospital. The idea is that as well as creating a
place that will allow experts to share their knowledge more easily, patients
will benefit by being able to have all their appointments on the same day rather
than spread out through the year. By holding one-day clinics, the centre will
also enable families to meet others with the same condition and share
experiences and knowledge.

The centre will also be a place to pool resources and conduct trials - all with
the hope of eventually finding cures.

"My friends and I think it's a great idea," says Aneeba. "I have missed so many
days of college by going to different appointments.

"It will be good to be able to talk to other people who have it, and know that
you are not alone."

Zahir adds: "We just hope it will prevent other families going through the pain
and worry we had."

Sarah Borrows, Clinical Nurse Specialist Renal Genetics, who cares for patients
with LMBSS at QEHB says: "Due to the complex nature of many rare diseases
patients need to attend multiple clinics for the different aspects of the
condition.

"It has been reported that this often leads to a general lack of awareness, and
lack of experience, amongst healthcare professionals when caring for patient
with rare diseases.

"This, in turn can lead to inequitable access to co-ordinated quality care,
resulting in patients feeling isolated and frustrated with the healthcare
system.

"The national LMBBS clinic at QEHB has been designed to provide a 'one-stop'
clinic ensuring patients with diagnosed or suspected LMBBS receive expert
attention and co-ordinated management. The Rare Disease Centre will be able to
offer this clinic model to a wide range of rare diseases."

Help raise £1m for Europe's first Rare Disease Centre THE Sundaymercury and
Birmingham Mail have joined forces with the Queen Elizabeth Hospital Birmingham
Charity to raise £1 million to help set up Europe's first Rare Disease Centre at
the QE.

Drawing on the knowledge, skills and care of the QE, Birmingham Children's
Hospital and the University of Birmingham, the new unit will enable patients
from all over the UK to access treatment in one place.

Researchers will work, in turn, to develop cures for rare, genetic conditions
which collectively affect 3.5 million people in the UK. For more details visit
www.birminghammail.co.uk and www.qehb.org/rare/ www.birminghammail.co.uk and
www.qehb.org/rare/The charity will also benefit from the star-studded Pride of
Birmingham awards at the city's historic Town Hall on September 26, during which
courage, caring and community will be recognised.

also benefit from the star-studded Pride of Birmingham awards at the city's
historic Town Hall on September 26, during which courage, caring and community
will be recognised.

to be an annual The awards, set to be an annual event, are organised by the
Birmingham Mail is association with Virgin Trains.

FACTFILE LMBBS is a ¦rare, autosomal recessive genetic syndrome affecting one in
100,000 babies born. It is characterised by night blindness or poor vision (most
people with LMBBS will be registered blind by the age of 16); Polydactyl (extra
fingers and toes at birth); obesity; mild to moderate learning difficulties;
developmental delay/ behavioural problems; kidney disease and Hypogonadism
(diminished functional activity of the gonads).

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Aneeba Ahmed, aged 23, ¦who has an eating disorder. Right, Aneeba as a
young girl weighed up to 16 stone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SMY


               Copyright 2014 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved


                              318 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                              Wharfedale Observer

                            January 7, 2016 Thursday

Otley's MP vows to continue health drugs funding fight in 2016

BYLINE: Jim Jack

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 443 words


'THE FIGHT goes on'.

That is the pledge from MP Greg Mulholland as he prepares to carry on into 2016
a campaign for NHS funding of drugs for ultra-rare diseases.

The initiative led by the Otley-based politician - #FundOurDrugsNOW - celebrated
a major success last month with the news Vimizim, which treats Morquio Syndrome,
would be available through the NHS.

That decision lifted a cloud of anxiety that had been hanging over the heads of
families like those of seven-year-old Morquio sufferer Sam Brown, an Otley
schoolboy, for more than a year.

Morquio Syndrome is a degenerative, inherited condition that severely inhibits
growth.

Mr Mulholland's fight to get the NHS to provide the only treatment currently
available for the disease lasted 13 months.

Reflecting on the battle, he said: "With the UK being one of the pioneers of the
Vimizim drug, with it having been approved by the European Medicines Agency in
April, 2014 and being available in more than 20 other countries, it was baffling
the drug was not available in the UK.

"In addition to Morquio Syndrome, I learnt that people suffering from Tuberous
Sclerosis Complex and a rare form of Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy were also
waiting for the drugs they needed to be approved.

"That's 218 people in total having to wait for the bureaucratic cogs to turn so
they could live as normal a life as possible.

"And so the #FundOurDrugsNOW campaign was born."

He went on to outline the pain experienced by all the affected 218 families each
time there has been a delayed or cancelled 'decision' regarding treatment
funding by the authorities.

Mr Mulholland secured two Parliamentary debates and several meetings with Health
Minister George Freeman about the issue, and also organised a number of protests
while submitting five Parliamentary motions.

But it was the passion of those directly affected that he credits most.

He said: "What kept our campaign going was the sheer inspiration from those
suffering with these ultra-rare diseases.

"Families were ready to beat down every door so their loved ones, already
suffering enough, did not have to go through further pain when it could be
avoided."

Looking forward to 2016, he added: "The Vimizim announcement was fantastic news
for those suffering from Morquio Syndrome, and for that, full credit must go to
the families who fought so hard, the MPS Society and to Parliamentary colleagues
who joined our campaign.

"Of course, drugs have not yet been approved for those with Tuberous Sclerosis
Complex and Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy so the #FundOurDrugsNOW campaign
continues full steam ahead.

"If there is one thing the past 13 months show, it's that campaigning works."

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              319 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                           September 21, 2010 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

Curiouser and curiouser;
Imagine waking up with a foreign accent. Or feeling you're shrinking like Alice
in Wonderland. Sounds funny? Not if happens to you, says Samuel Muston

BYLINE: Samuel Muston

SECTION: LIVING; Pg. 44

LENGTH: 1063 words


The ability to sit at a piano and croon with an accent like Charles Aznavour's
is for many the acme of seductiveness. And people will pay to ensure their
French accent is as perfect as their command of the Gallic idiom. But what if
you woke one morning to find your usual Liverpudlian tones supplanted by a heavy
French accent?

For those with a little-known neurological condition called Foreign Accent
Syndrome, that question is not an idle consideration but a day-to-day reality.
Kay Russell, a 49-year-old from Gloucestershire found herself subject to a media
maelstrom last week when it was reported that she woke from an afternoon nap to
find her clipped Home Counties accent supplanted by a distinctly Gallic lilt.
Having endured a series of hemiplegic migraines that caused minor brain damage,
it is highly unlikely that her former accent will return.

Foreign Accent Syndrome is not the only strange condition to affect people.
According to Rare Disease UK, a support network for sufferers, there are an
estimated 3.5 million people with a unusual illnesses in Britain today, ranging
from a phobia of bridges to hallucinations of gigantism.

Foreign Accent Syndrome

This little-known condition alters the intonation of the sufferer's speech,
giving the impression that they are speaking with a foreign accent. Arising from
damage in the left frontal lobe of the brain, the condition is often found in
stroke victims and is often a transitory in nature.

Other sufferers have included the Newcastle woman who developed a Jamaican
accent following a stroke, and the migraine sufferer from the West Country who
woke up one day with a distinct Chinese accent.

As Professor Nick Miller of Newcastle University points out, though, the
syndrome has less to do with foreign accents than the name implies. "The notion
that sufferers speak in a foreign language is something that is in the ear of
the listener, rather than the mouth of the speaker. It is simply that the rhythm
and pronunciation of speech has changed."

Although Kay Russell has been subject to a degree of media flippancy, she has
fared better than the Norwegian woman who was the first recorded victim of the
syndrome. Developing a German accent just as the Nazis overran her country, she
was ostracised for the duration of the conflict.

Morgellons Syndrome

Morgellons syndrome is the most contentious and wince-inducing condition on our
list. Although yet to be officially classified as a disease, those who claim
affliction - and there are several thousand in the US - report the presence of
subcutaneous parasites which manifest themselves as long, fibre-like worms that
move around the body.

However, there is considerable debate among healthcare professionals as to
whether Morgellons is a real illness at all. In fact, doctors point out that
Morgellons bears all the hallmarks of delusional parasitosis, a secondary
phenomenon connected to schizophrenia. With the suggestion being put forward
that the "fibrous parasites" can actually be explained much more simply: they
are actually fibres from patients' clothes which have become entrenched in open
wounds. Sufferers vehemently dispute this contention.

Porphyria

The enzymic disorder porphyria was first recognised in the 4th century BC by the
father of modern medicine, Hippocrates. Taking its name from the Greek term for
"purple pigment", the disease causes a build-up of toxic porphyrins, which
discolour the urine of victims and, in some instances, trigger paranoid
delusions. It can also cause pain, cramps and fitting.

The most prominent victim was George III (and porphyria is thought to be
responsible for "the madness of King George"). A spartan regime of blistering
and leeches was prescribed by the royal physician, Francis Willis. Although the
blistering failed to help the King, it helped Willis, who was given a pension of
£1,000 a year. The King's case is now thought to have been caused by arsenic
poisoning from medication he was taking. "Leeching is not something we'd
recommend today," says Dr Joanne Marsden of King's College Hospital. "We prefer
dietary adjustment and pain control."

Todd's syndrome

The author Lewis Carroll was said to have been inspired to write Alice in
Wonderland after the onset of a bizarre neurological condition. Prey to "bilious
headaches", Carroll recorded in his diary his experience of "curious optical
effects ... seeing disordered 'fortifications'." Although historical diagnosis
is risky, scholars agree that these "disordered fortifications" were the likely
product of Todd's syndrome, a condition which distorts perceptions of size, and
induces the shrinking feeling Alice experiences. Only formally recognised 60
years ago, it affects just a tiny number of people per year.

Pica

Often manifesting itself in the early stages of pregnancy, Pica leads to an
uncontrollable desires to consume certain foods and, in some cases, inedible
objects - sponges, lengths of wood, and bricks have all be reported as objects
of desire for sufferers, and it's common to be drawn to eating soil, coal or
paper.

"There has been the suggestion that the cravings are the result of an iron
deficiency, but the connection has yet to be proven," says Sue Jacob of the
Royal College of Midwives.

Coulrophobia

Coulrophobia describes a terror of clowns. The condition is suprisingly common.
So much so that the music event Bestival had to discourage visitors, many of
whom come in fancy dress, from dressing up as clowns, as there were so many
potential phobics among the audience. It's not recognised as a medical
condition, but commonly affects children.

Other surprising phobias include chorophobia, which is a socially disabling fear
of dancing, and gephyrophobia, a fear of bridges. This is a relatively common
condition and a potentially dangerous one, as it can induce panic in drivers,
which can be quite a hazard in bridge-dense places such as New York. So much so
that the authorities are available to guide drivers over the Tappan Zee Bridge,
and in San Francisco they are well used to dispatching tow trucks to
panic-stricken drivers.

While we may be tempted to smile at the idea of someone plagued with worries
about clowns, or who crave inedible objects, as Stephen Nutt from Rare Disease
UK points out, the effects can be life-changing. And with one in 17 people
developing a rare disease during their lifetime, you or I could be next.

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2010 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              320 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           November 8, 2014 Saturday

Researchers to Present Data on Improving the Understanding of PNH and aHUS and
Underscoring the Effectiveness of Soliris® (eculizumab) Treatment at ASH 2014
Annual Meeting

LENGTH: 445  words


Washington, D.C.: Biotechnology Industry Organization has issued the following
news release:

Alexion Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (NASDAQ:ALXN) today announced that researchers
will present data from clinical studies of Soliris® (eculizumab) in patients
with paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria (PNH) and atypical hemolytic uremic
syndrome (aHUS), two life-threatening and ultra-rare diseases caused by chronic
uncontrolled complement activation, as well as data from the Global aHUS
Registry, at the 56th Annual Meeting of the American Society of Hematology
(ASH). Soliris is the first and only approved treatment for PNH and aHUS.
Abstracts summarizing these presentations are published on the ASH website and
can be accessed using the links below. The ASH annual meeting will be held
December 6-9, 2014, in San Francisco.

Soliris, a first-in-class terminal complement inhibitor, is approved in nearly
50 countries as a treatment for patients with PNH, a debilitating, ultra-rare
and life-threatening blood disorder characterized by complement-mediated
hemolysis (destruction of red blood cells), and in nearly 40 countries as a
treatment for patients with aHUS, a genetic, chronic and ultra-rare disease
associated with vital organ failure and premature death.

Soliris and PNH

The following abstract will be presented in a poster session on Saturday,
December 6, 2014, from 5:30 to 7:30 p.m., Pacific Standard Time (PST):

Abstract 1595: "The Interim Analysis of the OPTIMA (Observation of GPI-anchored
Protein-Deficient [PNH-type] Cells in Japanese Patients with Bone Marrow Failure
Syndrome and in those Suspected of Having PNH) Study," Noji, et al.

Accessible at: https://ash.confex.com/ash/2014/webprogram/Paper74188.html

Soliris and aHUS

The following abstract will be presented in a poster session on Sunday, December
7, 2014, from 6:00 to 8:00 p.m., Pacific Standard Time (PST):

Abstract 2789: "Eculizumab is an Effective Treatment for Atypical Hemolytic
Uremic Syndrome in Pediatric and Adult Patients with or without Identified
Genetic Complement Mutations or Complement Factor H Autoantibodies," Cataland,
et al.

Accessible at: https://ash.confex.com/ash/2014/webprogram/Paper73345.html

The following abstract will be presented in a poster session on Monday, December
8, 2014, from 6:00 to 8:00 p.m., Pacific Standard Time (PST):

Abstract 4204: "Baseline Demographics and Characteristics of 466 Patients with
Atypical Hemolytic Uremic Syndrome in the Global aHUS Registry," Licht, et al.

Accessible at: https://ash.confex.com/ash/2014/webprogram/Paper69197.html

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              321 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           November 8, 2014 Saturday

Researchers to Present Data on Improving the Understanding of PNH and aHUS and
Underscoring the Effectiveness of Soliris® (eculizumab) Treatment at ASH 2014
Annual Meeting

LENGTH: 445  words


Washington, D.C.: Biotechnology Industry Organization has issued the following
news release:

Alexion Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (NASDAQ:ALXN) today announced that researchers
will present data from clinical studies of Soliris® (eculizumab) in patients
with paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria (PNH) and atypical hemolytic uremic
syndrome (aHUS), two life-threatening and ultra-rare diseases caused by chronic
uncontrolled complement activation, as well as data from the Global aHUS
Registry, at the 56th Annual Meeting of the American Society of Hematology
(ASH). Soliris is the first and only approved treatment for PNH and aHUS.
Abstracts summarizing these presentations are published on the ASH website and
can be accessed using the links below. The ASH annual meeting will be held
December 6-9, 2014, in San Francisco.

Soliris, a first-in-class terminal complement inhibitor, is approved in nearly
50 countries as a treatment for patients with PNH, a debilitating, ultra-rare
and life-threatening blood disorder characterized by complement-mediated
hemolysis (destruction of red blood cells), and in nearly 40 countries as a
treatment for patients with aHUS, a genetic, chronic and ultra-rare disease
associated with vital organ failure and premature death.

Soliris and PNH

The following abstract will be presented in a poster session on Saturday,
December 6, 2014, from 5:30 to 7:30 p.m., Pacific Standard Time (PST):

Abstract 1595: "The Interim Analysis of the OPTIMA (Observation of GPI-anchored
Protein-Deficient [PNH-type] Cells in Japanese Patients with Bone Marrow Failure
Syndrome and in those Suspected of Having PNH) Study," Noji, et al.

Accessible at: https://ash.confex.com/ash/2014/webprogram/Paper74188.html

Soliris and aHUS

The following abstract will be presented in a poster session on Sunday, December
7, 2014, from 6:00 to 8:00 p.m., Pacific Standard Time (PST):

Abstract 2789: "Eculizumab is an Effective Treatment for Atypical Hemolytic
Uremic Syndrome in Pediatric and Adult Patients with or without Identified
Genetic Complement Mutations or Complement Factor H Autoantibodies," Cataland,
et al.

Accessible at: https://ash.confex.com/ash/2014/webprogram/Paper73345.html

The following abstract will be presented in a poster session on Monday, December
8, 2014, from 6:00 to 8:00 p.m., Pacific Standard Time (PST):

Abstract 4204: "Baseline Demographics and Characteristics of 466 Patients with
Atypical Hemolytic Uremic Syndrome in the Global aHUS Registry," Licht, et al.

Accessible at: https://ash.confex.com/ash/2014/webprogram/Paper69197.html

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              322 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                  Public Opinion (Chambersburg, Pennsylvania)

                            March 10, 2012 Saturday

Mercersburg boy to undergo transplant surgery for rare disease next week

BYLINE: By SAMANTHA COSSICK, Staff writer

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 576 words


Chevy Hockenberry is a friendly, playful 22-month-old boy just like other
children. Unlike other boys his age though, Chevy has a rare disease and will
undergo transplant surgery next week.

After dealing with several illnesses since birth, Chevy was diagnosed with
Hurler syndrome in January, said Melissa Johnson, Chevy's mother who resides in
Mercersburg.

"It affects the major organs and enlarges everything and makes it harder for
them to function and work," she said. "(His organs) are too big for his little
body to handle. So without the transplant, he could possibly have five to 10
years, but with the transplant he could live into his old age."

Hurler syndrome is a rare, inherited disease where a person's body cannot
produce a certain enzyme that helps break down and process long chains of sugar
molecules, according to the University of Maryland Medical Center's website.
Without the enzyme, these sugar molecules can build up and damage organs.

"Enzyme replacement therapy adds a working form of the missing enzyme to the
body," the website states. "Bone marrow transplant has been used in several
patients with this condition. The treatment has had mixed results."

Chevy has had weekly enzyme replacement therapy treatments since he was
diagnosed, as well as chemotherapy, with his second round of treatment beginning
Saturday, Johnson said.

Although the treatments make Chevy tired and are sometimes painful, they will
help him prepare for the stem cell transplant on March 15 at Milton S. Hershey
Medical Center, she said.

"It's hard to get prepared for something you don't know nothing about," Johnson
said. "I've read up on all the medicines and what he has to go through, but
going through chemo, he's doing fine so far, no allergic reactions. I just take
it a day at a time."

One thing that has helped Johnson throughout Chevy's medical treatments is one
of Chevy's doctors introducing them to another family whose son also had Hurler
syndrome and underwent the same treatment.

"I have hard days and I have good days. Some days I look at him being sick and
it gets to me," she said. "I think of the family before that went through this
and I saw their little boy and I know he's going to get through it and that
helped me out a lot."

Johnson also relies on her family, which includes her 3-year-old daughter,
Chevy's father, Lance, and his 12-year-old child - in addition to their friends.

"I'm very set with my support system," she said. "If I need anything, they're
just a call away."

Johnson's support system includes her friend Cathy Mellot, who worked to set up
a trust fund on March 2 for Chevy to assist Johnson with their expenses.

"We're trying to make everything on her as easy as possible, so she doesn't have
to worry about any of this stuff," Mellot said. "The community is being very,
very good and there are people out there that really went out of their way to
help out and do things."

The money will help with travel expenses to Hershey, as well as living expenses
when Chevy and his mother move out of the hospital in six to eight weeks and
into a medical apartment nearby for his recovery, she said.

The fund is set up through M&T Bank in Mercersburg and anyone interested in
assisting may donate at any M&T bank throughout the county or mail checks to
Mellot at 3507 Mountain Road, Mercersburg 17236.

----------

Samantha Cossick can be reached at scossick@publicopinionnews.com and 262-4762
or follow her on Twitter at @SCossickPO.

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chevy Hockenberry

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2012 Public Opinion
                              All Rights Reserved


                              323 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                      North Shore News (British Columbia)

                           September 20, 2015 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Mom paying it forward; Tackling Mudderella in support of Rare Disease Foundation

BYLINE: Erin Mcphee, North Shore News

SECTION: LIVE; Pg. A13

LENGTH: 627 words


North Vancouver's Allison Jones knows all too well the benefits of a supportive
community.

A mom to a four-and-a-half year old with two rare conditions, Jones is grateful
to her peers, other parents of children with special needs, whom she's come to
know through her ongoing involvement with the Rare Disease Foundation's family
and patient support programs.

That commitment to supporting others will no doubt come in handy when next
Saturday, Sept. 26, Jones and her team of eight other women will tackle the
Whistler Mudderella, a non-competitive, five to seven mile long, muddy, obstacle
course designed by and geared primarily towards women.

"Our motto is: We start together, we finish together. So if we have to slow
down, we slow down for a teammate, but we're going to finish together," says
Jones, 43, a married mother of three boys. More than about finishing the
gruelling course, Jones and her team have dedicated their participation to the
Rare Disease Foundation and are using it as a means of raising funds and
awareness. "Meeting the parents at the Rare Disease Foundation, I couldn't have
gotten through a lot of it without their support. They've become almost like a
second family.. .. All of the programs that they do for the families, I just
want to keep it going. Anything we can do to help, I'm all over it," she says.

Jones' son Max was diagnosed with Weaver syndrome, a rare overgrowth disorder,
as well as Polymicrogyria. "That's a rare brain malformation that causes
developmental delays. He can't walk yet and we are working on getting him to
speak one day," says Jones.

Max also has epilepsy and so experiences seizures (related to his
Polymicrogyria), and uses a wheelchair as his main mode of transportation.

Despite his challenges, he's a happy guy and just started kindergarten at
Capilano elementary.

"We pretty much treat him like we treat our other two children, we just adapt
it. So he's always out in the community and everyone in the neighbourhood knows
Max," says Jones.

In light of her son's diagnosis, she attends the foundation's monthly Vancouver
Area Parent 2 Parent Resource Network meetings held at B.C. Children's Hospital,
intended to provide parents with emotional support and an opportunity to meet
others facing similar challenges. The sessions also feature a guest speaker on a
variety of topics. Jones also just started volunteering with the organization
and hopes to lend a hand with upcoming events.

Joining her on her Mudderella team, dubbed Max's Bombshells, are friends, old
co-workers and a mother of another child with Weaver syndrome. Her co-captain is
Christy Slusarenko, a 38-year-old Port Moody resident who served as Max's
one-on-one support person when he attended Capilano University Children's
Centre. "That's how I met her, at daycare, just talking to her every day,
talking to her about Max," says Jones. "We've become really good friends," she
adds.

This is the second fundraiser Jones and Slusarenko have done in support of
children with special needs, having participated in the Easter Seals
Woman2Warrior, another female-oriented charity obstacle adventure race,
benefitting the organization's camp program, last May at Burnaby's Swangard
Stadium.

"There were three of us on that team and we had so much fun that we thought we
would take it a step ahead, and we signed up for the Mudderella," says Jones,
adding she hopes to make this an annual fundraiser. "Who knows, if there's
another obstacle race coming up, we may sign up for that too," she says.

To support their fundraising, visit, max.causevox.com/allison-jones. For more
information on the Rare Disease Foundation, visit rarediseasefoundation.org.

For more information on the Whistler Mudderella (registration: $129/$140) visit
mudderella.com.

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo Kevin Hill; Allison Jones (right) is participating in next
weekend's Whistler Mudderella obstacle course event, along with friend Christy
Slusarenko, as a fundraiser for the Rare Disease Foundation. Her son Max,
nearing his fifth birthday, has two rare conditions and their family has been
strongly supported by the foundation's family and patient support programs.;

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2015 North Shore News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              324 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                Cornish Guardian

                          November 15, 2006 Wednesday

Big party aims to help sufferers of rare disease

SECTION: Pg. 16

LENGTH: 340 words


Newquay residents keen to help light up the lives of sufferers of a rare disease
have until November 24 to purchase tickets for a grand party.

The family of five-year-old Shania Knuckey, who was diagnosed with Gorlin
Syndrome in March last year, are covering their Sweetbriar Crescent home in
Christmas lights in a bid to raise cash and increase awareness of the condition.

They are also holding a huge party - with a special mystery guest for the little
ones - at the Sandy Lodge Hotel on November 26.

Mum Sandra and dad Jason said: "Last year we covered the house in Christmas
lights for charity and we're giving it a go again this year.

"Last year we had a little collection box outside and raised £200 for the Gorlin
Syndrome group."

Gorlin Syndrome is a rare medical condition which has more than 100 symptoms,
including skin disorders and cysts. A recent survey showed that it only affects
one in 55,600 people.

Sandra said: "Shania is amazing. She is just like any other little girl, full of
life and always has a big smile. Shania has to wear sun block 365 days of the
year to protect her delicate skin and has been in and out of hospital.
Throughout her life she will have to see many specialists but she takes it all
in her stride."

The house should make a show-stopping sight - but it is no problem for Jason,
who loves putting up the lights.

It has also become a bit of a family tradition with Shania's sisters Leanne and
Claire.

Like last year, the lights will be switched on by a Radio Cornwall presenter on
December 1. All are  welcome to attend the event, or make a donation as they
pass by.

It is hoped that the fundraising party will also help to raise more cash for the
group. Sandra said: "There will be karaoke, a raffle and a visit from a secret
but very special guest."

Tickets to the event - open to people of all ages - are priced £3 and available
from Sandra or the Sandy Lodge Hotel. Anyone wishing to donate raffle prizes
can call Sandra on 01637 878404.

* To find out more about Gorlin Syndrome visit www.gorlingroup.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2006 Cornish Guardian
                              All Rights Reserved


                              325 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                           The Advertiser (Australia)

                            August 25, 2012 Saturday
                               1 - State Edition

RARE DISEASE Genetic key found

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 104  words


MELBOURNE researchers have unlocked some of the mystery surrounding DiGeorge
syndrome, a rare disease that causes birth defects.

One in 4000 babies are affected, suffering a variety of heart, vertebral and
palate defects that range from minor to severe.

Walter and Eliza Hall Institute researcher Dr Anne Voss and her colleague Dr Tim
Thomas led a team of researchers to investigate why babies with DiGeorge
syndrome had the same DNA mutation on chromosome 22 but their defects varied
widely.

The researchers found that a protein, MOZ, was responsible for switching on or
off the activity of a major gene involved in the disease.

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: ADV


                   Copyright 2012 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              326 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily - Africa Weekly

                               September 4, 2014

Caring out of the ordinary

BYLINE: Zhao Xu

LENGTH: 2262  words


Understanding, family support remain crucial for Chinese children suffering from
rare diseases.

A volunteer playing with children suffering from osteogenesis imperfecta at an
event organized by the Beijing-based China-Dolls Center for Rare Disorders. ZHU
XINGXIN / CHINA DAILY

Understanding, family support remain crucial for Chinese children suffering from
rare diseases, reports Zhao Xu.

It has been three years, but Li Jia still remembers the day when she looked into
her daughter's eyes and saw nothing.

"Her eyes wandered past me to focus, in an unfathomable gaze, on the motionless
tree leaves outside our apartment window. There was no flame of excitement, no
glint of curiosity, not even a faint glimmer of interest inside her dewy eyes,
only the blurry outlines of the tree," recalled the mother, in a voice as
calming as it was emotionally disturbing.

"For a brief moment, I felt my heart had been hollowed out. I was terrified."

Four types of rare diseases

Rett syndrome, originally termed cerebroatrophic hyperammonemia, is a genetic
postnatal neurological disorder of the gray matter of the brain that almost
exclusively affects females but has also been found in male patients. The
clinical features include small hands and feet and a deceleration of the rate of
head growth. Patients typically have no verbal skills and about 50 percent of
individuals affected do not walk. Repetitive stereotyped hand movements, such as
wringing and/or repeatedly putting hands into the mouth, are also noted.

Phenylketonuria (PKU) is a metabolic genetic disorder characterized by mutations
in the gene for the hepatic enzyme phenylalanine hydroxylase (PAH), rendering it
nonfunctional. This enzyme is necessary to metabolize the amino acid
phenylalanine to the amino acid tyrosine. When PAH activity is reduced,
phenylalanine accumulates and is converted into phenylpyruvate (also known as
phenylketone), which can be detected in the urine. Untreated PKU can lead to
intellectual disability, seizures and other serious medical problems.

Osteogenesis imperfecta (OI and sometimes known as brittle bone disease) is a
congenital bone disorder characterized by brittle bones that are prone to
fracture. People with OI are born with defective connective tissue, or without
the ability to make it, usually because of a deficiency of Type-I collagen.
Eight types of OI can be distinguished. Most cases are caused by mutations in
the COL1A1 and COL1A2 genes.

Mucopolysaccharidosis are a group of metabolic disorders caused by the absence
or malfunctioning of lysosomal enzymes needed to break down molecules called
glycosaminoglycans - long chains of sugar carbohydrates in each of our cells
that help build bone, cartilage, tendons, corneas, skin and connective tissue.
The result is permanent, progressive cellular damage that affects appearance,
physical abilities, organ and system functioning, and, in most cases, mental
development.

What soon came after that fateful day was a discovery that plunged the whole
family into turbulent waters. Li's daughter, An An, then merely 16 months old,
was diagnosed with Rett syndrome, a sporadic neurological disorder that strikes
one in every 15,000 people, predominantly female.

In its early stages, the syndrome's symptoms are similar to that of autism.
Although patients gradually open up, in most cases, they will be unable to use
their hands or feet, or develop any verbal skills, as a direct result of the
brain damage. The majority fail to live beyond their 30s.

"It was excruciatingly painful - I cried my eyes out. But we persisted, living
on day by day with all the mishaps and mayhem of the disease while hoping for
the best," said the 36-year-old mother.

"In retrospect, any possible road leading to the future begins with acceptance;
to accept the illness for what it really is. For a child patient, that
acceptance starts to build with his or her family."

Yet that process could take years, said Wei Min, a leading pediatrician with
Peking Union Medical College Hospital in Beijing.

"Upon being told the bad news, some parents just collapsed, while others sat
there, dumbfounded, seeing and hearing no more. But all would eventually manage
a reprieve from the initial shock to ask the same question: 'How could this be
true?' And you know instinctively that no amount of medical knowledge would help
here," said Wei, 69.

"Quite often, such denials are aided by the fact that rare diseases, by
definition, are diseases that hit only a tiny segment of the population."

Rough figures

In the United States, the Rare Diseases Act of 2002 defines the term as any
disease or condition that affects fewer than 200,000 people in the country, or
about one in 1,500 people. In Japan, that ratio is set at about one in 2,500
people.

However, ratio alone can give the wrong impression, and in a country as populous
as China, "tiny" means more than 15 million people, Wei said.

"The 15 million figure often cited for China is a rough estimate at best, since
we have no official definition for 'rare diseases' and have conducted no
comprehensive census on the number of sufferers. Among them, nearly 70 percent
are children."

Wang Yi'ou is the founder of the Beijing-based NGO China-Dolls Center For Rare
Disorders. After suffering repeated fractures since 1, Wang was diagnosed with
osteogenesis imperfecta, also known as brittle bone disease, at the age of 16.
Hitting one per 20,000 live births, the congenital disease gives its victims
defective connective tissue, rendering them petite "China dolls" with stunted
growth and fragile bones.

"There was one time two years ago, when we sent a copy of our monthly magazine
to an address we believed to have belonged to a fellow patient. A few days
later, we got a reply, in the form of a mail parcel, which contained a pair of
scissors and a scribbling of words. It basically read: 'Dare to send me another
copy and I'll commit suicide in front of you'," said Wang, 32.

"A phone call soon followed, made by a woman who admitted to subscribing our
magazine with the address. It was not meant for her son, who had brittle bone
disease, but for herself and her husband, the heartbroken mother told us."

"She said, 'It kills my son to be reminded that he's a rare-disease patient. I
don't know how he found the magazine, but please, don't send it, never again!'"
Wang said.

"Telling from my own experience, the boy's denial of his own condition, and by
extension himself, has stemmed in large part from the evasiveness adopted by his
entire family against the disease. What was meant to be protection ended up to
be harm."

Gu Ruofan, 15, who suffers from mucopolysaccharidosis, with her mother Zheng Yu
at the Beijing West Railway Station on Aug 21. WANG JING / CHINA DAILY

Wang's organization is one of the major Chinese beneficiaries of donations from
the popular Ice Bucket Challenge campaign helping sufferers of amyotrophic
lateral sclerosis disease.

Zheng Yu, whose 15-year-old daughter, Gu Ruofan, first showed signs of a rare
disease called mucopolysaccharidosis in kindergarten, believes that an adult
very often fails to gauge the grit of a minor.

"My girl was diagnosed at 4, but we kept it from her for another four years,
until 2007, when I took her to a symposium in Taiwan focused on the disease. We
were sitting below while medical experts from around the world discussed its
many symptoms and possible alleviations, including hindered growth, a thicker
neck and unusable legs," Zheng said.

"Suddenly, my daughter looked up at me and asked, 'Mom, is this the same one
that I've got?' "

An An, 4, kisses her sister Jia Jia. An An was diagnosed with Rett syndrome when
she was 16 months old. PROVIDED TO CHINA DAILY

15 million

The estimated number of people with rare diseases in China

7,000

Up to this number of types of rare diseases have been identified worldwide

The 15 million figure often cited for China is a rough estimate at best, since
we have no official definition for 'rare diseases' and have conducted no
comprehensive census on the number of sufferers."

WEI MIN

A LEADING PEDIATRICIAN WITH PEKING UNION MEDICAL COLLEGE HOSPITAL

It's important to remember that parental love, however fierce and devoted, can
never fill the void left in a child's heart by the lack of friends."

MENG YAN

A GENETIC DISEASE EXPERT FROM THE 301 HOSPITAL

The idea that your rare-disease child needs to take no responsibility for his or
her health is a myth, and encourages nothing but self-pity. It's up to parents
to instill in their kids a strong sense of regimen,  which they then need to
plan their lives around their disease."

ZHAO NING

A PARENT WHOSE 8-YEAR-OLD DAUGHTER WAS DIAGNOSED WITH PHENYLKETONURIA, A
METABOLIC GENETIC DISORDER

" 'Are you OK?' I asked. 'Yeah ... I think I've been doing far better than many
of them, right? ' my daughter answered. And that was it," remembered the
41-year-old. "Then I knew I was the weak one."

If acknowledging the stark reality of a rare disease represents the first step
forward, then what comes next should be opening up to the world around, said
Meng Yan, a genetic disease expert from the 301 Hospital in Beijing. Again,
parents play a crucial role.

"A rare-disease child, especially those with conspicuous physical changes, draws
confidence from his loved ones to face up to the inquisitive stares he or she is
certain to encounter out on the streets," she said.

"It's important to remember that parental love, however fierce and devoted, can
never fill the void left in a child's heart by the lack of friends."

Gu Ruofan said her daily walks from the classroom to the playground constituted
both her happiest and saddest moments.

"I'm the happiest when my best friend is at my side. But when we have a quarrel
and she runs away, leaving me shuffling behind, dragging my legs, I'm the
saddest," she said.

A sense of regimen

A rare-disease child who has decided to "go out" is almost certain to suffer
occasional emotional pain, said Zheng, who insists that her daughter goes to
school.

"For anyone, with or without a disease, respect is something to be earned," she
said. "If life's a battle, then I've put her on the front line fighting for
herself, while letting her know that I'm always here with her. Love is the best
balm when there's a wound."

Yet no love should stand in the way of parents taking disciplinary action
against their "rare kids", conceded Zhao Ning, whose 8-year-old daughter was
diagnosed with phenylketonuria, a metabolic genetic disorder, upon birth.
Sufferers of the disease lack in their body a special type of enzyme necessary
for metabolizing amino acid.

"Patients should wean themselves off any 'normal food', and instead eat only
'synthesized food', which contains a much lower protein level yet tastes worse
than starch. But in reality, many parents relented after their kids pleaded
repeatedly to have, say, a chocolate bar or simply a piece of meat. I'm the
opposite of these parents," said the 40-year-old.

"My daughter once stole some cakes from the kitchen. She was just about 5 or 6,
but I beat her hand with a stick so hard that it became seriously swollen. After
that, I locked myself in my room and slapped my own face 10 times harder.

"The idea that your rare-disease child needs to take no responsibility for his
or her health is a myth, and encourages nothing but self-pity," said Zhao, whose
daughter, apart from attending regular schools, has learned to play music and
even swim.

"It's up to parents to instill in their kids a strong sense of regimen, which
they then need to plan their lives around their disease."

In January this year, Li Jia gave birth to her second daughter, Jia Jia.

"She's a healthy baby, having learned to crawl at 5 months old," said the proud
mother.

"I understand all the concerns a 'rare parent' has in not having another child,
but my little one is working miracles on her elder sister.

"Due to her illness, An An was slow to react. There was this time when Jia Jia
called out at her sister, making a prolonged 'Ah' sound while waiting for her
reply. This lasted for about half a minute, until An An finally looked up from
her seemingly unstoppable hand-wringing," Li said. "That moment was so touching
- none of us adults had ever given An An that much time as her little sister. "

Wei, the pediatrician, said she could not put enough emphasis on the role of
family, especially parents.

"Worldwide, nearly 7,000 different types of rare diseases have been identified.
For the overwhelming majority of them, no cure exists or is likely to be found
in the near future," she said.

"If anything, the stark reality has made it more crucial for parents to remember
that your rare child has a life to explore, whatever its length. They are
responsible for laying the very first brick for the bridge of understanding
between a rare kid and his disease, between him and the rest of the world."

And that effort will never go unappreciated, Li said.

"Sometimes, An An would give me a lick on the face, which is her way to plant a
kiss. Other times, she'll just nuzzle up toward me, like a little cub, and the
tiny sound from her nostrils assures me that she's comfortable and contented,"
she said.

Early this year, Li got an email from the mother of another child suffering from
Rett syndrome, from overseas.

"She wrote about communicating with her brain-damaged daughter, with the help of
an eye-tracking machine that could read a person's mind by capturing the
movements of his or her eyeballs," Li said.

"At the end of the conversation, the screen came up with these words: 'Mom, I
love you'."

Contact the writer at zhaoxu@chinadaily.com.cn

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1497


                    Copyright 2014 China Daily Information.
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              327 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                          November 19, 2008 Wednesday
                                 First Edition

Mum pays tribute to 'one-in-a-million' son;
LOVING: Happy-go-lucky boy dies after a ten-year battle against a rare disease

BYLINE: Chris Henwood

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 336 words


THE heart-broken mother of a Black Country schoolboy who died after a ten-year
battle with a rare disease has paid tribute to her 'one-in-a-million' son.

Thirteen-year-old Ben Williams, from West Bromwich, died in his sleep while
lying next to his mum, on Wednesday morning last week.

Ben, a pupil at Meadows Sports College, in Oldbury, was diagnosed at the age of
three with Hunter Syndrome - a genetic disorder affecting around 2,000 people
across the globe.

West Bromwich Albion fan Ben shared his Stour Street home with 10-year-old
brother, Liam, their mother, 38-year-old Nicola Williams, and grandad David,
aged 60.

Miss Williams said: "The house is empty without Ben. It's just an empty space
and nothing will ever fill it. He was one-in-a- million.

"We knew we would lose him but we didn't think it would be this quick.

"He was just watching television, like any other night before he went to bed. At
2am my dad went in to check on him and he was fine. I woke up at 8am and he was
dead. It seems like a dream, like I've not woken up.

"I thought he'd just had a comfortable night's sleep because normally he coughs
but did nothing like that.

"We called the paramedics and the police came too - it was horrible."

Hunter Syndrome prevents the body from breaking down chemicals, causing a
build-up of toxins.

Symptoms include enlarged liver and spleen and ivory-colored skin lesions.

In May 2006, Ben went to Disneyworld, in Florida, thanks the Make A Wish
Foundation - a charity for children and young people with life-threatening
illnesses.

Former WBC Super Middleweight World Champion Richie Woodhall's dad, Lennie,
heard of Ben's condition and presented him with a Baggies shirt.

"He was a happy-go-lucky boy," said Miss Williams.

"He liked animals and loved all sports - boxing, darts, horseracing, but
especially football.

"He was a loving boy and I never heard him cry in 13 years."

Ben's funeral takes place this Friday at 11am in West Bromwich Crematorium,
Forge Lane, off Newton Road.

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Ben Williams with mum Nicola, brother Liam and gran Marina.
 Ben with his mum and brother on a dream holiday to Disneyland.
 Brave Ben who battled with Hunter Syndrome.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2008 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved


                              328 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily - Africa Weekly

                               September 4, 2014

Caring out of the ordinary

BYLINE: Zhao Xu

LENGTH: 2265  words


Understanding, family support remain crucial for Chinese children suffering from
rare diseases, reports Zhao Xu.

A volunteer playing with children suffering from osteogenesis imperfecta at an
event organized by the Beijing-based China-Dolls Center for Rare Disorders. ZHU
XINGXIN / CHINA DAILY

Understanding, family support remain crucial for Chinese children suffering from
rare diseases, reports Zhao Xu.

It has been three years, but Li Jia still remembers the day when she looked into
her daughter's eyes and saw nothing.

"Her eyes wandered past me to focus, in an unfathomable gaze, on the motionless
tree leaves outside our apartment window. There was no flame of excitement, no
glint of curiosity, not even a faint glimmer of interest inside her dewy eyes,
only the blurry outlines of the tree," recalled the mother, in a voice as
calming as it was emotionally disturbing.

"For a brief moment, I felt my heart had been hollowed out. I was terrified."

Four types of rare diseases

Rett syndrome, originally termed cerebroatrophic hyperammonemia, is a genetic
postnatal neurological disorder of the gray matter of the brain that almost
exclusively affects females but has also been found in male patients. The
clinical features include small hands and feet and a deceleration of the rate of
head growth. Patients typically have no verbal skills and about 50 percent of
individuals affected do not walk. Repetitive stereotyped hand movements, such as
wringing and/or repeatedly putting hands into the mouth, are also noted.

Phenylketonuria (PKU) is a metabolic genetic disorder characterized by mutations
in the gene for the hepatic enzyme phenylalanine hydroxylase (PAH), rendering it
nonfunctional. This enzyme is necessary to metabolize the amino acid
phenylalanine to the amino acid tyrosine. When PAH activity is reduced,
phenylalanine accumulates and is converted into phenylpyruvate (also known as
phenylketone), which can be detected in the urine. Untreated PKU can lead to
intellectual disability, seizures and other serious medical problems.

Osteogenesis imperfecta (OI and sometimes known as brittle bone disease) is a
congenital bone disorder characterized by brittle bones that are prone to
fracture. People with OI are born with defective connective tissue, or without
the ability to make it, usually because of a deficiency of Type-I collagen.
Eight types of OI can be distinguished. Most cases are caused by mutations in
the COL1A1 and COL1A2 genes.

Mucopolysaccharidosis are a group of metabolic disorders caused by the absence
or malfunctioning of lysosomal enzymes needed to break down molecules called
glycosaminoglycans - long chains of sugar carbohydrates in each of our cells
that help build bone, cartilage, tendons, corneas, skin and connective tissue.
The result is permanent, progressive cellular damage that affects appearance,
physical abilities, organ and system functioning, and, in most cases, mental
development.

What soon came after that fateful day was a discovery that plunged the whole
family into turbulent waters. Li's daughter, An An, then merely 16 months old,
was diagnosed with Rett syndrome, a sporadic neurological disorder that strikes
one in every 15,000 people, predominantly female.

In its early stages, the syndrome's symptoms are similar to that of autism.
Although patients gradually open up, in most cases, they will be unable to use
their hands or feet, or develop any verbal skills, as a direct result of the
brain damage. The majority fail to live beyond their 30s.

"It was excruciatingly painful - I cried my eyes out. But we persisted, living
on day by day with all the mishaps and mayhem of the disease while hoping for
the best," said the 36-year-old mother.

"In retrospect, any possible road leading to the future begins with acceptance;
to accept the illness for what it really is. For a child patient, that
acceptance starts to build with his or her family."

Yet that process could take years, said Wei Min, a leading pediatrician with
Peking Union Medical College Hospital in Beijing.

"Upon being told the bad news, some parents just collapsed, while others sat
there, dumbfounded, seeing and hearing no more. But all would eventually manage
a reprieve from the initial shock to ask the same question: 'How could this be
true?' And you know instinctively that no amount of medical knowledge would help
here," said Wei, 69.

"Quite often, such denials are aided by the fact that rare diseases, by
definition, are diseases that hit only a tiny segment of the population."

Rough figures

In the United States, the Rare Diseases Act of 2002 defines the term as any
disease or condition that affects fewer than 200,000 people in the country, or
about one in 1,500 people. In Japan, that ratio is set at about one in 2,500
people.

However, ratio alone can give the wrong impression, and in a country as populous
as China, "tiny" means more than 15 million people, Wei said.

"The 15 million figure often cited for China is a rough estimate at best, since
we have no official definition for 'rare diseases' and have conducted no
comprehensive census on the number of sufferers. Among them, nearly 70 percent
are children."

Wang Yi'ou is the founder of the Beijing-based NGO China-Dolls Center For Rare
Disorders. After suffering repeated fractures since 1, Wang was diagnosed with
osteogenesis imperfecta, also known as brittle bone disease, at the age of 16.
Hitting one per 20,000 live births, the congenital disease gives its victims
defective connective tissue, rendering them petite "China dolls" with stunted
growth and fragile bones.

"There was one time two years ago, when we sent a copy of our monthly magazine
to an address we believed to have belonged to a fellow patient. A few days
later, we got a reply, in the form of a mail parcel, which contained a pair of
scissors and a scribbling of words. It basically read: 'Dare to send me another
copy and I'll commit suicide in front of you'," said Wang, 32.

"A phone call soon followed, made by a woman who admitted to subscribing our
magazine with the address. It was not meant for her son, who had brittle bone
disease, but for herself and her husband, the heartbroken mother told us."

"She said, 'It kills my son to be reminded that he's a rare-disease patient. I
don't know how he found the magazine, but please, don't send it, never again!'"
Wang said.

"Telling from my own experience, the boy's denial of his own condition, and by
extension himself, has stemmed in large part from the evasiveness adopted by his
entire family against the disease. What was meant to be protection ended up to
be harm."

Gu Ruofan, 15, who suffers from mucopolysaccharidosis, with her mother Zheng Yu
at the Beijing West Railway Station on Aug 21. WANG JING / CHINA DAILY

Wang's organization is one of the major Chinese beneficiaries of donations from
the popular Ice Bucket Challenge campaign helping sufferers of amyotrophic
lateral sclerosis disease.

Zheng Yu, whose 15-year-old daughter, Gu Ruofan, first showed signs of a rare
disease called mucopolysaccharidosis in kindergarten, believes that an adult
very often fails to gauge the grit of a minor.

"My girl was diagnosed at 4, but we kept it from her for another four years,
until 2007, when I took her to a symposium in Taiwan focused on the disease. We
were sitting below while medical experts from around the world discussed its
many symptoms and possible alleviations, including hindered growth, a thicker
neck and unusable legs," Zheng said.

"Suddenly, my daughter looked up at me and asked, 'Mom, is this the same one
that I've got?' "

An An, 4, kisses her sister Jia Jia. An An was diagnosed with Rett syndrome when
she was 16 months old. PROVIDED TO CHINA DAILY

15 million

The estimated number of people with rare diseases in China

7,000

Up to this number of types of rare diseases have been identified worldwide

The 15 million figure often cited for China is a rough estimate at best, since
we have no official definition for 'rare diseases' and have conducted no
comprehensive census on the number of sufferers."

WEI MIN

A LEADING PEDIATRICIAN WITH PEKING UNION MEDICAL COLLEGE HOSPITAL

It's important to remember that parental love, however fierce and devoted, can
never fill the void left in a child's heart by the lack of friends."

MENG YAN

A GENETIC DISEASE EXPERT FROM THE 301 HOSPITAL

The idea that your rare-disease child needs to take no responsibility for his or
her health is a myth, and encourages nothing but self-pity. It's up to parents
to instill in their kids a strong sense of regimen,  which they then need to
plan their lives around their disease."

ZHAO NING

A PARENT WHOSE 8-YEAR-OLD DAUGHTER WAS DIAGNOSED WITH PHENYLKETONURIA, A
METABOLIC GENETIC DISORDER

" 'Are you OK?' I asked. 'Yeah ... I think I've been doing far better than many
of them, right? ' my daughter answered. And that was it," remembered the
41-year-old. "Then I knew I was the weak one."

If acknowledging the stark reality of a rare disease represents the first step
forward, then what comes next should be opening up to the world around, said
Meng Yan, a genetic disease expert from the 301 Hospital in Beijing. Again,
parents play a crucial role.

"A rare-disease child, especially those with conspicuous physical changes, draws
confidence from his loved ones to face up to the inquisitive stares he or she is
certain to encounter out on the streets," she said.

"It's important to remember that parental love, however fierce and devoted, can
never fill the void left in a child's heart by the lack of friends."

Gu Ruofan said her daily walks from the classroom to the playground constituted
both her happiest and saddest moments.

"I'm the happiest when my best friend is at my side. But when we have a quarrel
and she runs away, leaving me shuffling behind, dragging my legs, I'm the
saddest," she said.

A sense of regimen

A rare-disease child who has decided to "go out" is almost certain to suffer
occasional emotional pain, said Zheng, who insists that her daughter goes to
school.

"For anyone, with or without a disease, respect is something to be earned," she
said. "If life's a battle, then I've put her on the front line fighting for
herself, while letting her know that I'm always here with her. Love is the best
balm when there's a wound."

Yet no love should stand in the way of parents taking disciplinary action
against their "rare kids", conceded Zhao Ning, whose 8-year-old daughter was
diagnosed with phenylketonuria, a metabolic genetic disorder, upon birth.
Sufferers of the disease lack in their body a special type of enzyme necessary
for metabolizing amino acid.

"Patients should wean themselves off any 'normal food', and instead eat only
'synthesized food', which contains a much lower protein level yet tastes worse
than starch. But in reality, many parents relented after their kids pleaded
repeatedly to have, say, a chocolate bar or simply a piece of meat. I'm the
opposite of these parents," said the 40-year-old.

"My daughter once stole some cakes from the kitchen. She was just about 5 or 6,
but I beat her hand with a stick so hard that it became seriously swollen. After
that, I locked myself in my room and slapped my own face 10 times harder.

"The idea that your rare-disease child needs to take no responsibility for his
or her health is a myth, and encourages nothing but self-pity," said Zhao, whose
daughter, apart from attending regular schools, has learned to play music and
even swim.

"It's up to parents to instill in their kids a strong sense of regimen, which
they then need to plan their lives around their disease."

In January this year, Li Jia gave birth to her second daughter, Jia Jia.

"She's a healthy baby, having learned to crawl at 5 months old," said the proud
mother.

"I understand all the concerns a 'rare parent' has in not having another child,
but my little one is working miracles on her elder sister.

"Due to her illness, An An was slow to react. There was this time when Jia Jia
called out at her sister, making a prolonged 'Ah' sound while waiting for her
reply. This lasted for about half a minute, until An An finally looked up from
her seemingly unstoppable hand-wringing," Li said. "That moment was so touching
- none of us adults had ever given An An that much time as her little sister. "

Wei, the pediatrician, said she could not put enough emphasis on the role of
family, especially parents.

"Worldwide, nearly 7,000 different types of rare diseases have been identified.
For the overwhelming majority of them, no cure exists or is likely to be found
in the near future," she said.

"If anything, the stark reality has made it more crucial for parents to remember
that your rare child has a life to explore, whatever its length. They are
responsible for laying the very first brick for the bridge of understanding
between a rare kid and his disease, between him and the rest of the world."

And that effort will never go unappreciated, Li said.

"Sometimes, An An would give me a lick on the face, which is her way to plant a
kiss. Other times, she'll just nuzzle up toward me, like a little cub, and the
tiny sound from her nostrils assures me that she's comfortable and contented,"
she said.

Early this year, Li got an email from the mother of another child suffering from
Rett syndrome, from overseas.

"She wrote about communicating with her brain-damaged daughter, with the help of
an eye-tracking machine that could read a person's mind by capturing the
movements of his or her eyeballs," Li said.

"At the end of the conversation, the screen came up with these words: 'Mom, I
love you'."

Contact the writer at zhaoxu@chinadaily.com.cn

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1497


                    Copyright 2014 China Daily Information.
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              329 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                  China Daily

                           September 4, 2014 Thursday

Caring out of the ordinary

BYLINE: Zhao Xu

LENGTH: 2265  words


Understanding, family support remain crucial for Chinese children suffering from
rare diseases, reports Zhao Xu.

A volunteer playing with children suffering from osteogenesis imperfecta at an
event organized by the Beijing-based China-Dolls Center for Rare Disorders. ZHU
XINGXIN / CHINA DAILY

Understanding, family support remain crucial for Chinese children suffering from
rare diseases, reports Zhao Xu.

It has been three years, but Li Jia still remembers the day when she looked into
her daughter's eyes and saw nothing.

"Her eyes wandered past me to focus, in an unfathomable gaze, on the motionless
tree leaves outside our apartment window. There was no flame of excitement, no
glint of curiosity, not even a faint glimmer of interest inside her dewy eyes,
only the blurry outlines of the tree," recalled the mother, in a voice as
calming as it was emotionally disturbing.

"For a brief moment, I felt my heart had been hollowed out. I was terrified."

Four types of rare diseases

Rett syndrome, originally termed cerebroatrophic hyperammonemia, is a genetic
postnatal neurological disorder of the gray matter of the brain that almost
exclusively affects females but has also been found in male patients. The
clinical features include small hands and feet and a deceleration of the rate of
head growth. Patients typically have no verbal skills and about 50 percent of
individuals affected do not walk. Repetitive stereotyped hand movements, such as
wringing and/or repeatedly putting hands into the mouth, are also noted.

Phenylketonuria (PKU) is a metabolic genetic disorder characterized by mutations
in the gene for the hepatic enzyme phenylalanine hydroxylase (PAH), rendering it
nonfunctional. This enzyme is necessary to metabolize the amino acid
phenylalanine to the amino acid tyrosine. When PAH activity is reduced,
phenylalanine accumulates and is converted into phenylpyruvate (also known as
phenylketone), which can be detected in the urine. Untreated PKU can lead to
intellectual disability, seizures and other serious medical problems.

Osteogenesis imperfecta (OI and sometimes known as brittle bone disease) is a
congenital bone disorder characterized by brittle bones that are prone to
fracture. People with OI are born with defective connective tissue, or without
the ability to make it, usually because of a deficiency of Type-I collagen.
Eight types of OI can be distinguished. Most cases are caused by mutations in
the COL1A1 and COL1A2 genes.

Mucopolysaccharidosis are a group of metabolic disorders caused by the absence
or malfunctioning of lysosomal enzymes needed to break down molecules called
glycosaminoglycans - long chains of sugar carbohydrates in each of our cells
that help build bone, cartilage, tendons, corneas, skin and connective tissue.
The result is permanent, progressive cellular damage that affects appearance,
physical abilities, organ and system functioning, and, in most cases, mental
development.

What soon came after that fateful day was a discovery that plunged the whole
family into turbulent waters. Li's daughter, An An, then merely 16 months old,
was diagnosed with Rett syndrome, a sporadic neurological disorder that strikes
one in every 15,000 people, predominantly female.

In its early stages, the syndrome's symptoms are similar to that of autism.
Although patients gradually open up, in most cases, they will be unable to use
their hands or feet, or develop any verbal skills, as a direct result of the
brain damage. The majority fail to live beyond their 30s.

"It was excruciatingly painful - I cried my eyes out. But we persisted, living
on day by day with all the mishaps and mayhem of the disease while hoping for
the best," said the 36-year-old mother.

"In retrospect, any possible road leading to the future begins with acceptance;
to accept the illness for what it really is. For a child patient, that
acceptance starts to build with his or her family."

Yet that process could take years, said Wei Min, a leading pediatrician with
Peking Union Medical College Hospital in Beijing.

"Upon being told the bad news, some parents just collapsed, while others sat
there, dumbfounded, seeing and hearing no more. But all would eventually manage
a reprieve from the initial shock to ask the same question: 'How could this be
true?' And you know instinctively that no amount of medical knowledge would help
here," said Wei, 69.

"Quite often, such denials are aided by the fact that rare diseases, by
definition, are diseases that hit only a tiny segment of the population."

Rough figures

In the United States, the Rare Diseases Act of 2002 defines the term as any
disease or condition that affects fewer than 200,000 people in the country, or
about one in 1,500 people. In Japan, that ratio is set at about one in 2,500
people.

However, ratio alone can give the wrong impression, and in a country as populous
as China, "tiny" means more than 15 million people, Wei said.

"The 15 million figure often cited for China is a rough estimate at best, since
we have no official definition for 'rare diseases' and have conducted no
comprehensive census on the number of sufferers. Among them, nearly 70 percent
are children."

Wang Yi'ou is the founder of the Beijing-based NGO China-Dolls Center For Rare
Disorders. After suffering repeated fractures since 1, Wang was diagnosed with
osteogenesis imperfecta, also known as brittle bone disease, at the age of 16.
Hitting one per 20,000 live births, the congenital disease gives its victims
defective connective tissue, rendering them petite "China dolls" with stunted
growth and fragile bones.

"There was one time two years ago, when we sent a copy of our monthly magazine
to an address we believed to have belonged to a fellow patient. A few days
later, we got a reply, in the form of a mail parcel, which contained a pair of
scissors and a scribbling of words. It basically read: 'Dare to send me another
copy and I'll commit suicide in front of you'," said Wang, 32.

"A phone call soon followed, made by a woman who admitted to subscribing our
magazine with the address. It was not meant for her son, who had brittle bone
disease, but for herself and her husband, the heartbroken mother told us."

"She said, 'It kills my son to be reminded that he's a rare-disease patient. I
don't know how he found the magazine, but please, don't send it, never again!'"
Wang said.

"Telling from my own experience, the boy's denial of his own condition, and by
extension himself, has stemmed in large part from the evasiveness adopted by his
entire family against the disease. What was meant to be protection ended up to
be harm."

Gu Ruofan, 15, who suffers from mucopolysaccharidosis, with her mother Zheng Yu
at the Beijing West Railway Station on Aug 21. WANG JING / CHINA DAILY

Wang's organization is one of the major Chinese beneficiaries of donations from
the popular Ice Bucket Challenge campaign helping sufferers of amyotrophic
lateral sclerosis disease.

Zheng Yu, whose 15-year-old daughter, Gu Ruofan, first showed signs of a rare
disease called mucopolysaccharidosis in kindergarten, believes that an adult
very often fails to gauge the grit of a minor.

"My girl was diagnosed at 4, but we kept it from her for another four years,
until 2007, when I took her to a symposium in Taiwan focused on the disease. We
were sitting below while medical experts from around the world discussed its
many symptoms and possible alleviations, including hindered growth, a thicker
neck and unusable legs," Zheng said.

"Suddenly, my daughter looked up at me and asked, 'Mom, is this the same one
that I've got?' "

An An, 4, kisses her sister Jia Jia. An An was diagnosed with Rett syndrome when
she was 16 months old. PROVIDED TO CHINA DAILY

15 million

The estimated number of people with rare diseases in China

7,000

Up to this number of types of rare diseases have been identified worldwide

The 15 million figure often cited for China is a rough estimate at best, since
we have no official definition for 'rare diseases' and have conducted no
comprehensive census on the number of sufferers."

WEI MIN

A LEADING PEDIATRICIAN WITH PEKING UNION MEDICAL COLLEGE HOSPITAL

It's important to remember that parental love, however fierce and devoted, can
never fill the void left in a child's heart by the lack of friends."

MENG YAN

A GENETIC DISEASE EXPERT FROM THE 301 HOSPITAL

The idea that your rare-disease child needs to take no responsibility for his or
her health is a myth, and encourages nothing but self-pity. It's up to parents
to instill in their kids a strong sense of regimen,  which they then need to
plan their lives around their disease."

ZHAO NING

A PARENT WHOSE 8-YEAR-OLD DAUGHTER WAS DIAGNOSED WITH PHENYLKETONURIA, A
METABOLIC GENETIC DISORDER

" 'Are you OK?' I asked. 'Yeah ... I think I've been doing far better than many
of them, right? ' my daughter answered. And that was it," remembered the
41-year-old. "Then I knew I was the weak one."

If acknowledging the stark reality of a rare disease represents the first step
forward, then what comes next should be opening up to the world around, said
Meng Yan, a genetic disease expert from the 301 Hospital in Beijing. Again,
parents play a crucial role.

"A rare-disease child, especially those with conspicuous physical changes, draws
confidence from his loved ones to face up to the inquisitive stares he or she is
certain to encounter out on the streets," she said.

"It's important to remember that parental love, however fierce and devoted, can
never fill the void left in a child's heart by the lack of friends."

Gu Ruofan said her daily walks from the classroom to the playground constituted
both her happiest and saddest moments.

"I'm the happiest when my best friend is at my side. But when we have a quarrel
and she runs away, leaving me shuffling behind, dragging my legs, I'm the
saddest," she said.

A sense of regimen

A rare-disease child who has decided to "go out" is almost certain to suffer
occasional emotional pain, said Zheng, who insists that her daughter goes to
school.

"For anyone, with or without a disease, respect is something to be earned," she
said. "If life's a battle, then I've put her on the front line fighting for
herself, while letting her know that I'm always here with her. Love is the best
balm when there's a wound."

Yet no love should stand in the way of parents taking disciplinary action
against their "rare kids", conceded Zhao Ning, whose 8-year-old daughter was
diagnosed with phenylketonuria, a metabolic genetic disorder, upon birth.
Sufferers of the disease lack in their body a special type of enzyme necessary
for metabolizing amino acid.

"Patients should wean themselves off any 'normal food', and instead eat only
'synthesized food', which contains a much lower protein level yet tastes worse
than starch. But in reality, many parents relented after their kids pleaded
repeatedly to have, say, a chocolate bar or simply a piece of meat. I'm the
opposite of these parents," said the 40-year-old.

"My daughter once stole some cakes from the kitchen. She was just about 5 or 6,
but I beat her hand with a stick so hard that it became seriously swollen. After
that, I locked myself in my room and slapped my own face 10 times harder.

"The idea that your rare-disease child needs to take no responsibility for his
or her health is a myth, and encourages nothing but self-pity," said Zhao, whose
daughter, apart from attending regular schools, has learned to play music and
even swim.

"It's up to parents to instill in their kids a strong sense of regimen, which
they then need to plan their lives around their disease."

In January this year, Li Jia gave birth to her second daughter, Jia Jia.

"She's a healthy baby, having learned to crawl at 5 months old," said the proud
mother.

"I understand all the concerns a 'rare parent' has in not having another child,
but my little one is working miracles on her elder sister.

"Due to her illness, An An was slow to react. There was this time when Jia Jia
called out at her sister, making a prolonged 'Ah' sound while waiting for her
reply. This lasted for about half a minute, until An An finally looked up from
her seemingly unstoppable hand-wringing," Li said. "That moment was so touching
- none of us adults had ever given An An that much time as her little sister. "

Wei, the pediatrician, said she could not put enough emphasis on the role of
family, especially parents.

"Worldwide, nearly 7,000 different types of rare diseases have been identified.
For the overwhelming majority of them, no cure exists or is likely to be found
in the near future," she said.

"If anything, the stark reality has made it more crucial for parents to remember
that your rare child has a life to explore, whatever its length. They are
responsible for laying the very first brick for the bridge of understanding
between a rare kid and his disease, between him and the rest of the world."

And that effort will never go unappreciated, Li said.

"Sometimes, An An would give me a lick on the face, which is her way to plant a
kiss. Other times, she'll just nuzzle up toward me, like a little cub, and the
tiny sound from her nostrils assures me that she's comfortable and contented,"
she said.

Early this year, Li got an email from the mother of another child suffering from
Rett syndrome, from overseas.

"She wrote about communicating with her brain-damaged daughter, with the help of
an eye-tracking machine that could read a person's mind by capturing the
movements of his or her eyeballs," Li said.

"At the end of the conversation, the screen came up with these words: 'Mom, I
love you'."

Contact the writer at zhaoxu@chinadaily.com.cn

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1493


                    Copyright 2014 China Daily Information.
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              330 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                      August 16, 2016 Tuesday 6:30 AM EST

Abeona Therapeutics Announces Second Quarter 2016 Financial Results, Recent
Clinical Highlights

LENGTH: 769  words


Aug. 16 -- Abeona Therapeutics Inc. (NASDAQ: ABEO) a clinical-stage
biopharmaceutical company focused on delivering gene and plasma-based therapies
for life-threatening rare diseases, today announced financial results for the
second quarter. The Company will provide investors an update on recent and
ongoing business activities and an overview of its 2Q16 financials on,
Wednesday, August 17th, at 10:00 am (Eastern). Interested parties are invited to
participate in the call by dialing 877-269-7756 (toll free domestic) or
201-689-7817 (international).

"The second fiscal quarter of 2016 brought significant advancements in our goal
of building a strong leadership position in the development of innovative
therapies for rare diseases," stated Steven H. Rouhandeh, Executive Chairman.
"We are excited about the initial biopotency signals seen in our Sanfilippo Type
A clinical trial, and are looking forward to advancing multiple important new
therapeutic candidates for the treatment of epidermolysis bullosa (EB), as
announced last week. We thank our collaborators, shareholders and staff for
their ongoing commitment and support as we move these therapies further into
clinical development."

Timothy J. Miller, Ph.D, stated, "Abeona achieved many important regulatory and
clinical milestones in the second quarter of 2016. The milestones include the
dosing of the first patient in our Phase 1/2 clinical trial with ABO-102 for
patients with Sanfilippo syndrome type A, the FDA allowance of our Phase 1/2
clinical study in Sanfilippo syndrome type B (MPS IIIB), and, most recently, the
European regulatory approval for our MPS IIIA Phase 1/2 clinical study to be
conducted at Cruces University Hospital in Bilbao, Spain. Additionally, we are
excited about our new collaboration with the EB Research Partnership, EB Medical
Research Foundation and Stanford University to accelerate up to three new
promising EB product candidates toward commercialization."

Recent Abeona Operating Highlights

* On May 17, 2016, Abeona announced that the first patient in its Phase 1/2
trial for ABO-102 (AAV-SGSH), a single treatment gene therapy strategy for
patients with Sanfilippo syndrome type A (MPS IIIA), has been enrolled at
Nationwide Children's Hospital in Columbus, Ohio.

* On May 24, 2016, Abeona announced the FDA Allowance of its Investigational New
Drug (IND) for a Phase 1/2 clinical study with ABO-101 (AAV-NAGLU) for patients
with Sanfilippo syndrome type B (MPS IIIB).

* On August 2, 2016, Abeona provided an update on the initial subjects enrolled
in this trial, stating that ABO-102 had been well tolerated with no safety or
tolerability concerns identified through 30-days post-injection, and that
encouraging signs of early biopotency had been observed in urinary and CSF GAG
(heparan sulfate) measurements as well as potential disease-modifying effects in
the liver and spleen.

* On August 4, 2016, the Company announced it had received European regulatory
approval by the Agencia Espanola de Medicamentos y Productos Sanitarios for its
Phase 1/2 trial for ABO-102 (AAV-SGSH) to be conducted at Cruces University
Hospital (Bilbao, Spain).

* On August 9, 2016, Abeona announced a collaboration with the EB Research
Partnership, EB Medical Research Foundation and Stanford University for the
development of treatments for recessive dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa (RDEB).
Clinical results for the lead EB program (EB-101) were recently presented at the
opening Plenary Session of the Society for Investigative Dermatology in May
2016, and Investigators at Stanford are recruiting patients for a Phase 2
clinical trial of EB-101 in adolescents age 13 and older to determine the effect
of type VII collagen gene corrective grafts on wound healing efficacy.

Second Quarter Summary Financial Results

* Cash Position: Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities as of June 30,
2016 were $34.3 million, compared to $37.4 million as of March 31, 2016. Net
cash used in operating activities in the Six Months Ended June 30, 2016 was $5.6
million as compared to $5.0 million in the same period in 2015, an increase of
$0.6 million.

* Revenues: Revenues were $214 thousand for the second quarter of 2016, compared
to $282 thousand in in the second quarter of 2015. Revenues consisted of a
combination of royalties from marketed products, primarily MuGard, and
recognition of deferred revenues related to upfront payments from early license
agreements.

* Loss per share: Loss per share was $0.20 for the second quarter of 2016,
compared to a loss per share of $0.16 in comparable period in 2015.

Source: Abeona Therapeutics

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2016 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              331 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                 The Pink Sheet

                     September 23, 2016 Friday 4:47 PM GMT

Keeping Track: Ilaris Adds Three Rare Disease Claims; Sirukumab Submitted;
Exondys 51's Surprising Approval

LENGTH: 1908  words


FDA's past week started with a surprise and concluded with breakthrough
approvals. Here's your news in brief.

Approval of 's Exondys 51 in Duchenne muscular dystrophy on Sept. 19, 2016 came
with a dose of controversy. FDA review documents described deep disagreement
about the decision, which was appealed all the way up to FDA Commissioner Robert
Califf.

On Sept. 23, FDA's simultaneous approvals of three breakthrough-designated rare
disease indications for 's Ilaris extended the biologic's reach in periodic
fever syndromes.

and  were on a roll. The companies' joint project sirukumab was submitted to FDA
for rheumatoid arthritis. GSK also submitted a new subcutaneous formulation of
Benlysta for lupus, while J&J received approval for an extended-release
formulation of its combination antidiabetic Invokamet.

announced the resubmission its Parkinson's disease therapy Xadago after a
complete response letter, and  prepared for the upcoming user fee goal for its
ophthalmic antihistamine candidate.

The field of women's health has been quiet for some time, but the past week saw
a new product submission ('s Yuvvexy, a vaginal estradiol tablet for
dyspareunia) and an approval (Kyleena, a lower-dose progestin intrauterine
contraceptive from ).

Eteplirsen Approval Accepts Dystrophin Production As Surrogate Endpoint In DMD

FDA's accelerated approval of Exondys 51 (eteplirsen) was one of the most
contentious ever for the agency.  At its heart was a dispute between Office of
Drug Evaluation I Director Ellis Unger and Center for Drug Evaluation and Review
Director Janet Woodcock over whether the drug's effect on the quantity of
dystrophin produced is an effect that is reasonably likely to predict clinical
benefit, such that it can serve as a surrogate endpoint supporting accelerated
approval. (/)

Following appeals, commissioner Califf deferred to Woodcock, and the antisense
oligonucleotide was cleared under the accelerated approval pathway for treatment
of Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) in patients who have a confirmed mutation
of the DMD gene that is amenable to exon 51 skipping.

Pink Sheet covered the approval and its ramifications extensively, with features
including a timeline of the review (/) and articles addressing the role of
advocacy groups (/) and the potential ripple effects for DMD development (/).
Our sister publication Scrip covered commercial aspects of the approval. (/)

The disagreements prolonged the review, making eteplirsen one of the rare new
molecular entity approvals that missed its user fee goal, which fell on May 26.

Eteplirsen is the seventeenth novel agent to receive approval from CDER in 2016.

Three Breakthrough Indications In One Day For Novartis' Ilaris

Novartis' Ilaris (canakinumab) added three more rare and distinct types of
periodic fever syndromes to labeling with simultaneous FDA approvals on Sept.
23. Earlier this year, FDA granted Ilaris breakthrough therapy designations for
the three conditions, tumor necrosis factor-receptor associated periodic
syndrome (TRAPS), hyperimmunoglobulin D syndrome (HIDS)/mevalonate kinase
deficiency (MKD) and familial Mediterranean Fever (FMF). (/)

FDA initially approved Ilaris, a monoclonal antibody targeting interleukin-1
beta, in 2009 for another periodic fever syndrome condition,
cryoporin-associated pediatric syndromes (CAPS). The periodic fever syndromes
are a group of rare autoinflammatory diseases also referred to as hereditary
periodic fevers (HPF).

The priority review approvals and the breakthrough designations are both based
on results of the Phase III CLUSTER study, which "showed rapid (at Day 15) and
sustained disease control with Ilaris compared to placebo through 16 weeks, in
patients with either TRAPS, HIDS/MKD or FMF," according to Novartis.

GSK/J&J Sirukumab BLA Adds Third Competitor To Anti-IL6 Race In RA

J&J's  has submitted a biologics license application (BLA) for sirukumab, a
monoclonal antibody for rheumatoid arthritis, partner GSK announced Sept. 23.
GSK will commercialize sirukumab in the Americas; J&J retained rights to the
rest of the world. Janssen announced a regulatory submission to the European
Medicines Agency on Sept. 12.

The BLA seeks approval of the anti-interleukin 6 MAb for treatment of adults
with moderately to severely active RA who have failed or are intolerant to one
or more disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs (DMARDs). The BLA is based on the
five Phase III studies in the SIRROUND clinical trial program comparing
sirukumab with placebo.

A standard review would put the user fee goal in September 2017, putting
sirukumab in position to be the third anti-IL6 MAb on the US market for RA. The
first, 's Actemra (tocilizumab), was approved by FDA in 2010, but the potential
second anti-IL6,  and 's sarilumab, is still under review, with a
fast-approaching Oct. 30, 2016 user fee goal.

While sirukumab has shown solid efficacy over placebo in the Phase III data that
have been presented publicly, analysts for Datamonitor Healthcare observed that
its ACR20 response was lower than the response seen in trials of Actemra and
sarilumab. (/)

The sirukumab BLA requests approval for two single-dose presentations of the
MAb, a prefilled syringe and an auto-injector. The MAb is administered as a 50mg
or 100mg subcutaneous injection in combination with DMARDs or as monotherapy
every four or two weeks, respectively.

New Benlysta Formulation, Dosing Under Review In US And Europe

A subcutaneous injection formulation of GSK's anti-B-lymphocyte stimulator
(BLyS) antibody Benlysta (belimumab) has been filed in both the US and Europe,
GSK announced Sept. 23. A standard review by FDA could put the alternative lupus
treatment regimen on the market in mid-2017.

Benlysta is currently available for intravenous administration, with a one-hour
infusion every four weeks, for treatment of active, autoantibody-positive
systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). The subcutaneous injection formulation was
administered weekly in the Phase III BLISS-SC trial that is pivotal for the BLA.
BLISS-SC compared subcutaneous Benlysta with placebo; all patients also received
standard of care treatment.

The new BLA submitted to FDA and the extension marketing authorization
application (MAA) in Europe seek modestly different indications reflecting the
different regulatory perspectives on Benlysta. The BLA seeks approval for
treatment of adults with active, autoantibody-positive SLE who are receiving
standard therapy, while the extension MAA is for a slightly more restrictive
claim of add-on therapy in adults with active, autobody-positive SLE with a high
degree of disease activity (e.g. positive anti-dsDNA and low complement) despite
standard therapy.

J&J Canagliflozin Franchise Grows With Invokamet XR Approval

FDA approved the extended-release formulation of J&J's antidiabetic combo
Invokamet on Sept. 20. Invokamet XR, a fixed-dose combination of the SGLT2
inhibitor canagliflozin and an extended-release form of the biguanide metformin,
is indicated for adults with type 2 diabetes when treatment with both agents is
appropriate.

Invokamet XR is the third product containing canagliflozin to receive FDA
approval. The SGLT inhibitor was approved as a single agent, Invokana, in 2013,
followed by approval of a fixed-dose combination with immediate-release
metformin, Invokamet, in August 2014. Invokamet is dosed twice daily; Invokamet
XR allows for once-daily use.

Newron Xadago Speeds Back To FDA

Newron announced the re-submission of its Xadago (safinamide) NDA on Sept. 22,
less than two months after receiving a reprieve from an FDA complete response
letter's requirement for new clinical studies of potential abuse liability and
dependence/withdrawal effects with the Parkinson's disease treatment.

The Class 2 resubmission carries a six-month review goal, putting the user fee
goal date at Feb. 22, 2017 or earlier.

The resubmission easily beats Newron's previously announced timetable. The
company predicted completing the resubmission by November 2016 when it reported
FDA's change of position in late July. (/) The company said that the additional
preclinical abuse liability studies and clinical data analyses convinced FDA
that the clinical evaluation called for in its March 29, 2016 complete response
letter would not be necessary.

Nicox In Talks With Possible Partner As AC-170 Goal Date Approaches

Nicox' cetirizine eyedrop formulation AC-170 has a priority review user fee goal
of Oct. 18, 2016, the company noted in a Sept. 22 half-year earnings release.
With the goal date fast approaching, "Nicox is currently in partnering
discussions in the US for this program," the release notes.

Nicox requested priority review of AC-170 for treatment of ocular itching
associated with allergic conjunctivitis based on "clinical pediatric data"
included in the NDA, which referenced data for J&J's Zyrtec under the 505(b)(2)
pathway. (/) AC-170 would be the first ophthalmic formulation of the
antihistamine, which is available over-the-counter in oral tablet, chewable
tablet, and syrup formulations.

subsidiary  holds a license to Nicox's other lead product candidate,
latanoprostene bunod, a new molecular entity to treat glaucoma. The
latanoprostene NDA received a complete response letter in July related to an
inspection of Bausch & Lomb's Tampa, Florida manufacturing facility. (/)

Kyleena Approval Extends Bayer's Intrauterine Contraceptive Franchise

Bayer added a middle option to its lineup of progestin-releasing intrauterine
systems for contraception with FDA's Sept. 16 approval of Kyleena.

Kyleena contains a reservoir of 19.5mg levonorgestrel, which is released over
five years to prevent pregnancy. The company's Mirena contains 52mg of the
steroid, also allows for five years of contraception, while the Skyla IUD
contains 13.5mg levonorgestrel to prevent pregnancy for up to three years.

Bayer is one of the few large branded pharma companies still developing new
contraceptive offerings, although its women's health prescription business is
often overshadowed by newer novel products. (/) The company pledges that it will
continue its commitment to pharmaceuticals after its merger with agribusiness
giant Monsanto. (/)

Yuvvexy NDA Acceptance Gives TherapeuticsMD Cause To REJOICE

FDA has accepted THerapeuticsMD's applicator-free vaginal estradiol product
Yuvvexy for review, assigning a May 7, 2017 standard review user fee goal date
to the 505(b)(2) NDA.

Yuvvexy, previously known as TX-004HR, is a small, digitally inserted vaginal
estradiol softgel capsule for treatment of moderate-to-severe dyspareunia, or
pain during sexual intercourse caused by vulvar and vaginal atrophy (VVA) due to
menopause. The mucoadhesive formulation dissolves quickly, according to the
company.

The NDA is based on the Phase III REJOICE trial, which tested the three Yuvvexy
doses proposed in the NDA - 4mcg, 10 mcg and 25mcg estradiol - against placebo
for 12 weeks. REJOICE showed "statistically significant and clinically
meaningful improvements" in severity of dyspareunia, a co-primary endpoint; the
product also significantly improved the other co-primary endpoints measuring
vaginal superficial cells, vaginal parabasal cells, and vaginal pH, according to
data presented at the Endocrine Society annual meeting in April 2016.
TherapeuticsMD also highlighted significant improvements in moderate-to-severe
vaginal dryness, a secondary endpoint.

By Bridget Silverman

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: PS


                             Copyright 2016 Informa
                              All Rights Reserved


                              332 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                        The Lebanon Democrat (Tennessee)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                             August 21, 2015 Friday

Wyatt's Walk to benefit SMS research

BYLINE: Xavier Smith, The Lebanon Democrat, Tenn.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 552 words


Aug. 21--The Wyatt's Walk and Run 5K will take place Oct. 24 at Cumberland
University and will look to raise awareness for Smith Magenis Syndrome (SMS),
which occurs when a person is missing a portion of chromosome 17.

Jessica Rogers, Wyatt's mother, said her son was diagnosed with SMS on Oct. 26
last year when he was 9 months old. The diagnosis came after months of various
medical issues and developmental delays after Wyatt was born 4 weeks premature
and extremely undersized.

"In the first few months of Wyatt's life, we were sent to specialist after
specialist for each arising issue," Rogers said on the event website. "As a
brand new mother, I was terrified and, even though most of Wyatt's physicians
continued to assure us that everything would resolve on its own, I just could
not shake the feeling that there was a bigger problem that was the cause of all
of these issues. So, I continued to push the doctors for answers."

After seeing a geneticist who determined Wyatt has SMS, Rogers said she and her
husband, Eric, grew concerned because they hadn't heard about the disorder, nor
did Wyatt's previous doctors.

"There has been little research done on this disorder, and there are really no
treatment options for SMS specifically, or a road map to follow other than
treating a wide variety of medical and behavioral issues individually as they
arise," she said. "Shortly after we received Wyatt's diagnosis, I was lucky
enough to find the SMS Research Foundation, which was specifically started to
fund research for this unique and complicated disorder."

Missy Longman and Jennifer Iannuzzi founded the SMS Research Foundation in 2007
after their daughters were diagnosed with the syndrome. The foundation's goal is
to find missing answers associated with SMS.

"When your child has a rare disease, the biggest thing you can do is research
and reach out to other families dealing with it," Rogers said.

Rogers said the syndrome affects one in 25,000 and Tennessee only has three or
four families dealing with a member with SMS, and one of those families lives in
Mt. Juliet.

"With it being a rare disease and two people in Wilson County, it seems like
it's a right thing to do."

The Rogers are graduates of Cumberland University and Jessica praised the
cooperation of the university.

"They have been great in working with us," Rogers said. "They've been so
supportive and helpful in getting this together."

Participants can pre-register at www.wyattswalk.kintera.org, or check-in at 7
a.m. The walk begins at 8 a.m.

There will be medals awarded to overall first place male and female winners, as
well as top-3 finishers in age categories: 14 and under, 15-19, 20-30, 31-40,
41-50, and 50 and over.

The SMS Research Foundation announced a fundraising opportunity where an
anonymous donor has offered $50,000 in the form of a challenge grant. All funds
donated to the SMSRF throughout the ensuing months will be matched up to
$50,000.

Rogers asked if a person cannot join us for the walk, please consider making a
direct donation on this website. All donations are fully tax deductible.

For more information, visit www.wyattswalk.kintera.org, and
www.smsresearchfoundation.org.

___ (c)2015 The Lebanon Democrat, Tenn. Visit The Lebanon Democrat, Tenn. at
www.lebanondemocrat.com Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20150821-1LD-Wyatt-s-Walk-to-benefit-SMS-research-0821-20150821

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1LD


                      Copyright 2015 The Lebanon Democrat


                              333 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                             Herald Sun (Australia)

                            February 2, 2014 Sunday
                               HeraldSun Edition

'I LOST MY FIRST TOOTH EVER!'

BYLINE: RUTH LAMPERD

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 3048  words


SAVING ASHLEY: He's only five and has a deadly disease he can't yet pronounce.
It would cost us $240,000 a year for the only drug that will save him - but who
should pay? RUTH LAMPERD reports on the battle to keep one cheeky, gap-toothed,
puppyloving special little boy alive.

ASHLEY Grey flings the front door nearly off its hinges. "You're here! Look, I
lost my first tooth ever." He's bouncing from right foot to left. He has a gappy
grin so broad it's as if he's smiling twice.

Not long ago he had a photo shoot with a child modelling agency - they got three
times the photographs in a third of the time it took for other kids. Ashley
owned the lens. His large blue eyes are always the last to look away. Ashley's
not like other five-year-olds. He has a rare, incurable and deadly disease. It
nearly killed him in the first year of his life.

Now, he is here - leaping over and over into the air in the hallway of his
parents' small rented house - only because of the charity of a pharmaceutical
company.

He is on a drug the Federal Government won't fund. The 300mg of medicine he gets
each fortnight is the cost of a family sedan. That's $240,000 a year.

With it, he is healthy and lives. Without it, he will get sick and die. It's
that simple.

But the terrifying reality is this: Ashley's future depends on the goodwill of a
multi-national company. Or the stroke of a bureaucrat's pen and a politician's
nod.

So his parents say a silent prayer of thanks whenever he gets his dose of liquid
gold. That's two more weeks for a priceless son.

The bottom bunk is Ashley's. He shares a small bedroom with his two brothers.
Baby Ollie is in a cot in the corner; Lachlan has the top bunk.

A fluffy Elmo blanket lies on Ashley's bed. When he gets crook, the blanket
comes out.

It might be 40C on an outer-eastern Melbourne day and he'll drag it to the
lounge room. Curl up under it on the couch. It's the first sign Jason and Kerri
Grey's son will be back in hospital.

There are downsides to the drug he takes. He's susceptible to infection and goes
straight to hospital for tests and hefty antibiotics if he has a fever.
Eculizumab stops the part of the immune system from working that fights
meningococcal and blood poisoning. They can't take chances with a high
temperature.

Yet with the medicine, Ashley can grow to old age. Smart minds can't find a cure
for aHUS (Atypical Haemolytic-Uraemic Syndrome) but the treatment works well to
rein in his roguish immune system.

Australian authorities don't fund Eculizumab for aHUS. It was turned down a year
ago for inclusion on Australia's Life Saving Drugs Program. It failed to pass
the stringent criteria.

The same could happen when a panel of experts considers next month if it should
recommend it be approved by the Health Minister. It could change the lives of up
70 Australians if they do. There are no guarantees Alexion will continue to fund
Ashley's treatment.

The pharmaceutical giant has lately turned down further pleas from Australian
patients who need it compassionately. They're waiting for the Federal Government
to start paying. And while they wait, people get sicker and sicker.

THE snow is 15cm deep outside Steve Squinto's Connecticut office window. It's
minus 6C. One little boy whose life he's helped change is 18,000km away running
around in shorts and a T-shirt.

Ashley is one of hundreds around the world. The drug works so well that
governments in 40 countries are funding it to fight aHUS.

Some people call Squinto the Steve Jobs of the biotech world. But for years, the
drug company he co-founded could have been a $1 billion failure.

That's how much money has been invested in Eculizumab. When the Yale University
researchers hit on a potential way to stop a rampant immune system, in the early
1990s, they turned attention to treating big diseases.

It looked like it was going nowhere. Two and a half years after setting up a
small lab, there was still nothing to show. And a decade later, there were only
limited wins. It looked grim.

CONTINUED NEXT PAGE FROM PREVIOUS PAGE But the persistence of a British
haematologist, who wanted to try the drug on some of his patients with an
ultra-rare autoimmune disease, finally paid off. Nearly a decade after Alexion
started, the breakthrough came.

Mr Squinto remembers it clearly. He was finishing the final mouthful of his
evening meal with his wife. The phone rang. It was a call from the UK. The
results were in. The 11 patients on the trial were getting better.

The brakes went on the big diseases and the Alexion team switched its focus to
rare ones. They started applying it to those with Ashley's syndrome. It worked
just as well.

Selling off the company with its brighter prospects crossed Mr Squinto's mind
but he and co-founder Leonard Bell, decided to see it through.

"We aren't really 'hand-it-over' kind of guys," he says.

In the next few years, after approval as a treatment for aHUS, calls came
through from doctors around the world. Families begged for the company to allow
them on to its compassionate program. Nobody could afford it.

Kidney specialist Dr Joshua Kausman, from the Royal Children's Hospital, was one
of those physicians. He first saw a very sick Ashley in 2009. Ashley was a
candidate for the drug Eculizumab (or Soliris, as it's sold) because he
continued to slide further into kidney failure, despite their efforts.

Dr Kausman recalls: "He was at the more severe end of the disease. But we still
had a chance to reverse it with Eculizumab." Within weeks of starting the drug,
Ashley was getting better. JUST before New Year, Diesel, a black labrador puppy,
gallops at Ashley's feet on the back deck. The kids got him for Christmas. The
boy bounces a Slinky by his side, a granted wish from Santa. It had topped his
Christmas list.

As Ashley tries to recite the name of his disease - Atypical Haemolytic Uraemic
Syndrome - Diesel nips his ankles. He falters through the words: "Acypital
Heemic Uric Syndrome." It's a bold effort, a medical mouthful, for a little
chap.

A couple of years ago, he had it perfect. That he has forgotten, is a good sign.
For too long, his disease consumed the family - Mum, Dad and five children,
including sisters Tahlia and Mikayla, who share the room up the hall from the
boys. That unpronounceable disease isn't talked about so much anymore.

Now, Kerri and Jason can value simple things. And they do. A family day at the
beach with the dog. Camping at a caravan park. A backyard full of green grass.

Kerri celebrates her son's birthdays with tears through smiles. Five have
passed, but those celebrations don't lose their gloss. His start in life was so
rough, she never believed he'd even see his first.

ONE word changed things for Australians like Ashley: "substantially." It was
inserted into Criteria 4 of the Life Saving Drugs Program in 2009 after a
review. It was one of the more significant changes. People with rare diseases
believe it's helped nudge the program - and lifesaving drugs - out of their
reach. All promise, but no delivery.

Criteria 4 now states for a drug to be accepted on the program, the
Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory Committee has to "predict that a patient's
lifespan will be substantially extended as a direct consequence of the use of
the drug".

In the world of medicine, rigour is everything. What does "substantially extend
life" really mean? Megan Fookes, who lives with a rare disease, thinks the word
made the process less objective. More ambiguous. She is the director of a
growing force in rare diseases advocacy - Rare Voices Australia. Ashley is just
one person her group represents. But he is luckier, by far, than most. There is
no doubt that his freebie medicine offers him a longer life. Substantially
longer.

He started out as the simplest of babies. Kerri's maternal attentiveness is
framed on the wall of their home - she had moulds made of each of the children's
hands and feet when they were a week shy of five months.

Two months after Ashley's feet and hands were captured in plaster he became
unsettled. Something triggered Kerri's sixth sense one Sunday night and she took
him to a new medical centre fearing something was terribly wrong.

The GP suspected he had anaemia. They told her to take him to Box Hill
Hospital's emergency department.

The consultation room was crammed with medics.

There was chaos, hurried conversations, drips inserted, nurses rushing about
with needles and tubes. And pitying glances.

"That's the first time I went, 'Oh, s---, this is serious'," Kerri says. "They
took him by ambulance within an hour to the Royal Children's. In the meantime
I'm still worrying about little things, like what I should do with the pram when
I'm in the ambulance." She was about to learn how unimportant those things
really were. For the next year aHUS became everything.

Ashley received the usual treatment for aHUS patients. But it was only partly
working. He had dialysis and plasma exchange. But his kidney function was
dropping. It looked like Ashley wouldn't grow up.

Chief among the big things to hit her was how much it would cost if she and
Jason had to pay for the wonder drug to keep Ashley alive. It was impossible. It
is the most expensive drug on the planet.

Despite its costliness, it's worth considering this: each taxpayer in Australia
would forfeit just 1.9 cents every year to keep Ashley alive. If every known
aHUS patient were to be funded, $2.22 every year is the most every taxpayer
would pay. Most likely far less, because it's not effective with every patient.

It is not much. But for the people who need it, it's what their lives are worth.
It's known as an orphan drug. They are usually expensive because they are
developed for niche markets of ultra-rare disease patients. That reason makes
them easier for a public health system to stomach - so few people actually need
to use them.

Megan Fookes says the Australian health system, despite more drug company
research into rare diseases, isn't supporting their successes once the results
come in. To her it's a sign that the small, rare disease cohort is considered
second class at the highest levels.

She got her hopes up last year. A review of the LSDP was announced a month
before the federal election. About 20 people hooked into a teleconference -
department bureaucrats and representatives for rare disease patients, drug
companies and doctors.

There was a guarded, but hopeful buzz on the lines.

But there has been nothing since. No emails, no calls.

Ms Fookes is still hopeful. "I welcome the review. We need it." She is supposed
to be on the review panel. "We're worried that the LSDP will go from bad to
worse." Australia's celebrated rigour in its medical research seems to be
tripping up rare disease funding. Orphan drugs often fail the test to be on the
program because patient groups are so small they often can't meet the strident
double-blind clinical trials of drugs for common diseases.

Medical practitioners venture that if this approach isn't throwing the baby out
with the bathwater, it's getting pretty close. And Fookes is bewildered.

"For some reason, rare diseases patients have to plead for their lives. People
like Ashley aren't sick from overeating, or smoking or taking illegal drugs.
They're born with the disease. But as far as the Federal Government is
concerned, it's bad bloody luck," she said.

Jason raced to the hospital from his job in Geelong the day they learned Ashley
might die. How he didn't get a speeding ticket was pure good luck.

He sat next to Kerri in the Royal Children's Hospital ED cubical as Dr Kausman
explained what the tests had revealed.

CONTINUED NEXT PAGE FROM PREVIOUS PAGE In that room, Dr Kausman was telling them
something like this: a part of Ashley's immune system - the "complement" - had
been triggered into uncontrolled action. How? They didn't know. Most likely a
genetic defect. It was constricting the blood vessels, making platelets form
clots and putting physical pressure on his oxygen-carrying red blood cells,
which were breaking apart. He needed dialysis. There was no cure. The disease
was deadly. Their son could die.

But what Jason heard was all muddled. None of it made sense. The words wouldn't
sink in.

"I remember sitting there with the doctor, turned to Kerri and asked her, 'Kez,
what's going on?' She was just crying, saying, 'I don't know, Jase'. That's when
I knew it was serious," he said.

Haematologists, nephrologists, immunologists, surgeons and paediatricians
assessed the critically ill boy that day. By 6pm he was in surgery to prepare
him for dialysis. Compensation for failing kidneys.

Jason threw in his job with a mattress company so he could care for their three
children back home. (Ollie was born three years later.) Kerri spent a year with
Ashley in hospital. She operated on autopilot for weeks at a time, then would
fall in a heap for a day, pick up again and reset to autopilot.

Jason became like a single parent to the other children.

For a while he kept a distance from his sick boy with the pool-blue eyes. "Deep
down I think I must have decided if I didn't get close," Jason falters, "it
would make losing him easier." THE figures don't look good for the Government.
Since 2009 - when "substantially" was inserted - treatment for only one new
disease group has been added to the list of beneficiaries from the program. That
group was already 80 per cent through the approval process anyway.

Another drug was also added, but it was an update to a disease already covered
before 2009.

The Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory Committee chair Dr Suzanne Hill declines to
be interviewed about the lifesaving drugs program. She responds politely that it
would be inappropriate to answer even general questions with the
Eculizumab-for-aHUS decision pending.

A rare diseases representative, speaking on condition of anonymity, told the
Herald Sun that a meeting with Dr Hill was particularly frustrating.

"She listened to what we said and seemed sympathetic. But at the end, she said,
'It's the politicians you need to be speaking to, not me'," they said.

Kerri Grey, who established Australia's aHUS support group, believes the Federal
Government has more money it could spend, but doesn't. The dollar figures are
enveloped into broader programs.

"The program is demand-driven depending on need," stated an email quoting chief
medical officer Professor Chris Baggoley in response to a request for an
interview.

The idea of the program was to allow access to these targeted rare disease
treatments that can't pass the Pharmaceutical Benefit System's cost-benefit
test. Fookes says that worthy aim has been diluted over time.

"As more drugs for rare diseases become available, it is harder and harder to
get them listed," she says. "I think they wanted to slow up the program, but
they basically stopped it in its tracks." ASHLEY'S parents see how close he sits
to the cliff edge. Kerri had frantic contact from a Queensland mother just
before Christmas. She often hears stories that might be Ashley's without
Eculizumab.

Bianca Scott lies in a Gold Coast hospital bed, tired and ill. For hours a day
she has dialysis to do the work of her failing kidneys. She has plasma exchange
to try and switch off her crazy immune system.

Three weeks ago, her mother Tammy Hamawi, listened to the rasp of her daughter's
fluid-filled lungs struggling for air as she slept. Would that breath be the
last?

Bianca had aHUS as a baby, but went into a surprise remission. Looking back on
some of her school leavers' formal photos from October, she was pale and drawn.
It was the start of her rapid drop.

The disease is in Bianca's family. Some relatives from decades before died young
from kidney disease, now known to be caused by aHUS.

Eculizumab is beyond Tammy's reach. She's asked Alexion for a discount price,
but they have turned her down. Kidney experts have told her Bianca has two
months before her kidney damage is irreversible. She's now trying to find
hundreds of thousands of dollars to pay for her girl's life.

While experts ponder and politicians delay, children like her slide. Still,
Tammy is an optimist. She hopes Bianca might be the first in her family to break
the aHUS curse. But she's running out of time. And with it, hope.

ASHLEY darts ahead and around the corner of a corridor at the Royal Children's
Hospital. By the time his mother spots him again, he's leaning in close, pulling
down his bottom lip and showing off the gap in his teeth to a cleaner who's
crouched down to chat. He got $5 for that. And there's another one loose beside
it. That'll be $10 in just a week.

The RCH staff have seen Ashley bottom out with his disease, founder on invasive
treatments, then bounce back with his $9000-a-dose drug. Hearing about their
little patient's tooth fairy visit is warming. Kids should feel well enough to
celebrate the small things.

One nurse remarks they love being rostered on when Ashley comes in for his
fortnightly infusion. There's no fuss. He smiles and pulls up his T-shirt for
the drip to be connected to his portacath, just under the skin to the left of
his heart.

He doesn't know much about his disease. His "special medicine" is part of life,
like vegetables for dinner and brushing his teeth. He doesn't know how close his
parents came to losing him. He doesn't know what his life costs. Nor should he.

Instead, Ashley Grey falls asleep in his car seat on the way home from hospital.
His head slumps to the side.

He dreams of being a dolphin when he grows up. Of yipping puppies and Slinky
springs. And how he'll spend his $10 fortune.

TO SIGN A PETITION: APSGA.ORG.AU.

TO LEARN MORE ABOUT RARE DISEASES: RAREVOICES.ORG.AU

AND MY DISEASE ISâ[#x20ac]¦ Take 1. Acypital Heereemic Ureemic Syndrome Take 2.
Atypical Ureemâ[#x20ac]¦Hureemic U-Ureemic Syndrome Take 3. Atypical Heereemic
Uâ[#x20ac]¦ Syndra, Syndrome?

Take 4. Atypical Heereemic Ureemic Syndrome Take 5. Atypical Hureemic Ureemic
Syndrome How it's really said: Atypical Haemolytic Uraemic Syndrome a deadly
auto-immune disease TO SEE ASHLEY ATTEMPT HIS MEDICAL MOUTHFUL GO TO
heraldsun.com.au

THE REAL COST HOW MUCH ASHLEY'S DRUG WOULD COST EACH TAXPAYER EACH YEAR 1.9
cents to keep Ashley alive 44 smarties to treat every aHUS with Eculizumab WHAT
ASHLEY'S PARENTS WOULD HAVE TO PAY TO FUND HIS TREATMENT A family sedan every
two weeks or...Half the value of his family's home each year

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: Herald Sun


                   Copyright 2014 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              334 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                             Yorkshire Evening Post

                            January 20, 2015 Tuesday

NHS drug battle as Leeds boy bids for funds

LENGTH: 424  words


Delays that  left a six-year-old Leeds boy with only "goodwill" to pay for his
treatment has had his case put before ministers.

Sam Brown is one of just 88 people in the UK with the rare Morquio syndrome, in
which child growth slows and mobility is drastically reduced. While there is no
cure to the life limiting condition, trials have shown the Vimizim drug can slow
down the disease.

That hope though was taken from the Otley boy when the NHS dropped funding
rather than face a legal challenge over how it hands out the cash, and now his
family is left relying purely on the goodwill of the drug company, BioMarin.

Leeds MP Greg Mulholland, has told health ministers the families of this and
other ultra-rare diseases cannot wait for another NHS drugs funding strategy.

He said: "There is a moral and a potentially legal responsibility to have these
decisions made, we are already a month past the date at which these families
were told there will be a decision, a potentially life changing decisions. Any
delay in guaranteeing drug access could cause deterioration of their conditions,
and this would be irreversible."

Sam's mother Katy said the NHS was failing to set out just how it will target
ultra-rare diseases.

She said: "Children like Sam have been thrown into a distressing and unnecessary
limbo. An innocent six year-old boy should not be suffering the consequences of
this unacceptable delay, but sadly he and other Morquio sufferers are."

Health minister George Freeman the NHS had to "operate with finite resources"
and that any funding for one condition would come at the cost to another.

But he added: "We are determined that the case of these children is heard."

Share your views by commenting on our website below, via
{http://www.twitter.com/LeedsNews| Twitter @LeedsNews | @LeedsNews on Twitter},
{mailto:yep.newsdesk@ypn.co.uk.co.uk | email yep.newsdesk@ypn.co.uk | email
yep.newsdesk@ypn.co.uk} or
{http://www.yorkshireeveningpost.co.uk/extra/content/your-stories| share your
own stories, photos and videos |
http://www.yorkshireeveningpost.co.uk/extra/content/your-stories}

RARE DISEASE LIMITS GROWTH

Morquio syndrome effects just a handful of children, but its effects can be
devastating for the families concerned.

The inherited disease starts to be seen as the child grows up, with radically
reduced growth and eventually severely reduced mobility.

The life limiting condition is caused by a failure of the body to breakdown
certain sugars, which then build up in the body and damage organs.

There is no cure for the condition.

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NLEP


                       Copyright 2015 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved


                              335 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                             August 21, 1981 Friday

Tampons   not cause   of illness,   MD says

BYLINE: CHARLOTTE MONTGOMERY; GAM

LENGTH: 552 words


By  CHARLOTTE MONTGOMERY
   While scientists continue to chase the elusive cause of toxic shock
 syndrome, an Ottawa obstetrician and gynecologist is convinced the rare
 disease is being mistakenly linked to the use of tampons.

"Considering some of the modern sexual practices, I am firmly convinced  that
toxic shock during menstruation is the result not of tampon use but  of sexual
intercourse during menstruation," Dr. Lindsay O. Watt writes in  a letter to the
Canadian Medical Association Journal.

Dr. Watt, who is holidaying in the United States and was not available
 for an interview, said in his letter that he believes blood infected with
 the disease is pushed into the uterus during intercourse and can enter the
 circulatory system because of changes in the lining of the uterus during
 menstruation.

Because most young women prefer tampons, the disease is thus linked to
 their use, he said.

The failure to explore this possibility in the published reports on the
 disease which he has read, Dr. Watt says, "shows a lack of either
 imagination or appreciation of the present 'sexual liberty.' "
    "I have been advising young women to use tampons ever since their
 introduction in England over 40 years ago and I have never seen a case of
 toxic shock resulting from their use," he wrote.

Dr. Alastair Clayton, director general of Health and Welfare Canada's
 laboratory centre for disease control in Ottawa, said he could find no
 fault with Dr. Watt's theory.
    "However, it's not the one that's currently upheld," Dr. Clayton said.

The current theory is that the bacteria which causes toxic shock
 syndrome is present in the vagina and that the tampon allows it to build
 up in a "plug effect," or that the bacteria finds the tampon a good place
 to grow. The theory is that the bacteria then enters the system through
 ulcerations in the vagina wall, he said.
    "To my knowledge, it's a new theory," Dr. Clayton said of Dr. Watt's
 explanation. "Certainly it's worth thinking about."
    Although his laboratory has developed a questionnaire for victims of
 toxic shock syndrome, it does not ask directly about sexual practices, he
 said.

Canada has had 43 reported cases of toxic shock syndrome, including
 three deaths, he said. The small number makes it difficult to study
 menstrual and sexual habits, he said.

Controversy last year about the rare disease, which can cause a drop in
 blood pressure, shock and can result in heart and renal failure, led to
 new federal regulations which require manufacturers to satisfy health
 officials of the safety of their product before they are given permission
 to begin sales.

Package labels must also include warnings that there is a believed
 association of the syndrome and the use of tampons. They advise users to
 read enclosed information which describes symptoms and urges women to
 change tampons every four to six hours.

Betty Hooper, a spokesman for the U. S. Centre for Disease Control in
 Atlanta, which has had 1,211 reported cases of toxic shock syndrome,
 including 87 deaths, said researchers there considered sexual habits early
 in their work. They found nothing of statistical significance to link the
 disease with sexual habits, Mrs. Hooper said.

Research into the cause of the disease itself is continuing in Canada,
 the United States and England, Dr. Clayton said.

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 1981 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              336 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                  Korea Times

                            November 11, 2013 Monday

Woman with rare disease dies after being bitten on back

BYLINE: By Ko Dong-hwan

LENGTH: 318 words


A woman bitten by her neighbor on back was left with a scar and transported to a
hospital where she died. A cause of her death, however, wasn't the bite but her
disease known as vascular ehlers danlos syndrome. / Courtesy of JTBC A woman
suffering from a rare vascular disease died after being bitten on her back by a
neighbor, sources reported on Monday.

In June, the 43-year-old housewife got into a fight with a 45-year-old woman
living across the hallway in an apartment in Nowon-gu, Seoul.

The fight started as one of them kicked a bicycle standing on the hallway, which
ticked off the other woman.

The fight grew more fearsome as they clashed for the second time. Briefly after
the first contact, one of them went across the hallway and grabbed the other
woman's hair and bit her back. The victim, left with a three-centimeter-long
scar on the back, was transported to a hospital but died after four hours.

While police requested a warrant for arrest of the biter, prosecutors held down
the request and ordered an autopsy on the victim's body to determine a precise
cause of death.

The autopsy revealed that the victim suffered from a rare disease known as
'vascular ehlers danlos syndrome.' Patients with the disease suffer rupture of
blood vessels even under minor physical impacts or movements. Examiners pointed
out that ruptured aorta below the victim's abdomen actually caused her death.

Prosecutors requested another warrant for the arrest of the woman after the
autopsy result was revealed. Her lawyer said during her interrogation before
incarceration on Thursday, 'The victim's death wasn't directly caused by the
woman's violence but due to her particular medical condition.'

A court denied the warrant on the account the woman doesn't venture outside her
fixed living boundary and will not abscond. The Seoul Northern District Court
will arraign the woman without arrest on charges of violent assault.

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2013 The Korea Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              337 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                              June 6, 2014 Friday
                                Atlantic Edition

HEALTH;
Canadians find causes for 146 rare diseases;
Researchers and clinicians are praising the groundbreaking effort, saying it
will enable rapid diagnoses

BYLINE: IVAN SEMENIUK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 777 words


SCIENCE REPORTER

The baby was born in 2008 with an unusually small head, dozens of tiny red
birthmarks and uncontrollable seizures.

No one had seen anything like it at the Children's Hospital of Eastern Ontario,
so researchers there documented the baby's symptoms and dubbed the condition
"microcephaly-capillary malformation syndrome."

Now, by comparing the baby's DNA with that obtained from a handful of similar
cases worldwide, Kym Boycott, a clinical geneticist at the Ottawa research
hospital, and her colleagues have pinpointed the single gene mutation
responsible - and they have done the same for 145 other rare childhood diseases.

"I think the biggest impact that will come from this is in our ability to change
the way we care for patients," Dr. Boycott said.

The avalanche of new discoveries, reported Thursday in the American Journal of
Human Genetics, is the fruit of a co-ordinated nationwide study called FORGE
(Finding of Rare Disease Genes in Canada).

Researchers and clinicians are praising the groundbreaking effort, saying it
will enable rapid diagnoses, guide treatment and in some cases point the way to
future therapies for children living with the burden of little-known but often
severely disabling genetic deficits.

"Even if we don't have a treatment, having a diagnosis is invaluable to patients
and their families," said Ada Hamosh, clinical director of the McKusick-Nathans
Institute of Genetic Medicine at Johns Hopkins University in Baltimore, who was
not involved in the study.

Researchers estimate there could be as many as 7,000 rare diseases. Such
diseases have received little attention until now because they typically occur
in fewer than one in 2,000 people.

Many of the disorders remain undocumented, which means those who are afflicted
by them have had little hope of knowing the cause of their disorder, let alone
of finding an effective treatment.

Starting in 2011, the FORGE collaboration was among the first to leverage new
high-speed DNA-sequencing technologies to tackle the rare disease conundrum.

"FORGE Canada and Kym Boycott were ahead of the world and have continued to lead
the world in data sharing and bringing tools to understand the causes of rare
disorders," Dr. Hamosh said.

In setting up the project, Dr. Boycott and her colleagues solicited clinicians
across the country to submit information about rare cases they had encountered.
Out of 371 submissions, they identified 264 children or young adults who from
birth exhibited the hallmarks of a rare genetic disorder.

Some of the disorders only affect a single organ, such as eyes, ears or heart.
Others are more broadly debilitating, include severe problems with brain
development and can lead to early death.

"You get the whole spectrum," Dr. Boycott said.

To identify a cause for each disorder, the FORGE team paired their Canadian
cases with at least one unrelated case of the same syndrome elsewhere in the
world or, in some cases, with an unaffected sibling.

They then rapid-sequenced the whole exomes of all those individuals, along with
parents and sometimes other family members when necessary. The exome is the
fraction of the human genome that codes for all the various proteins in the
human body.

By comparing exomes, the team was able to narrow down which of the thousands of
possible human genes might be implicated in a given disorder. While this
approach is not workable for complex diseases like cancer, which involve many
genes, it is remarkably effective for disorders that result from a single
mutation in the exome.

Of the the 146 genes that were identified by FORGE, 67 had never been linked to
a disease before.

"That's explosive," Dr. Hamosh said. "The impact of a single disease-gene
relationship is wide open for research and immediately clinically applicable."

Dr. Boycott, who is among those now involved in an international version of
FORGE, said that the ability of the Canadian clinical community to work together
on identifying rare diseases has attracted the attention of other countries
where researchers are less collaborative.

"All clinicians are dedicated to patient care but I think in Canada we just have
less ego about it so that we can get things done at a rate that other countries
cannot," Dr. Boycott said.

Phil Hieter, a professor of medical genetics at the University of British
Columbia, said that the discovery of rare disease genes by FORGE will allow
researchers who study the counterparts of those genes in model organisms such as
yeast or fruit flies to follow up and try to find out how a loss of function
triggers disease.

"Knowing what a gene does, how it's regulated ... That's where the answers lie,"
Dr. Hieter said.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2014 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              338 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                       May 4, 2016 Wednesday 6:30 AM EST

Agilis Biotherapeutics Announces Orphan Designation Approval in Europe for
Treatment of Angelman Syndrome

LENGTH: 560  words


May 4 -- Agilis Biotherapeutics, (Agilis), a biotechnology company advancing
innovative DNA therapeutics for rare genetic diseases that affect the central
nervous system (CNS), announced today that the European Commission (EC) has
granted Orphan Medicinal Product (OMP) designation in the European Union (EU) to
the Company's gene therapy product candidate, AGIL-AS. The EC's approval follows
a positive opinion in March from the European Medicine Agency's (EMA) Committee
for Orphan Medicinal Products (COMP). AGIL-AS is being developed for the
treatment of Angelman syndrome (AS), a neuro-genetic disorder characterized by
severe intellectual and developmental disability. AGIL-AS is the first
therapeutic to receive orphan designation for Angelman syndrome in Europe.

The orphan designation provides 10 years of market exclusivity for the product
upon approval, and potential incentives for Agilis including Protocol Assistance
(scientific advice for orphan products), and reduced filing and review fees with
the EMA.

"Receiving orphan status from the EC, in conjunction with the previous orphan
drug designation from the US FDA, is another step on our path to bringing this
important new medicine to patients in need of an effective, durable treatment,"
said Mark Pykett, President and CEO of Agilis. "The orphan designation in Europe
provides important benefits during development and commercialization, and
represents important progress as we seek to bring this novel treatment for AS to
the market."

Patricia Williams, Head of Regulatory Affairs at Agilis, said, "Receiving orphan
designation for Angelman syndrome in Europe, represents an important regulatory
milestone aimed at facilitating development of novel treatments for this
difficult to treat disease."

AGIL-AS is an innovative gene therapy candidate being investigated to treat AS
by using an AAV vector to deliver a corrective UBE3A gene to rescue neurological
deficits in patients suffering from this disease. AS is a rare genetic disorder
caused by the deletion or mutation of the UBE3A gene. UBE3A encodes the
ubiquitin ligase E6-AP, a protein that plays a critical role in the function of
the central nervous system. Characteristic features of AS include delayed
development, intellectual disability, severe speech impairment, seizures and
ataxia. According to The Foundation for Angelman Syndrome Therapeutics (FAST),
the disorder strikes an estimated one in 15,000 live births.

"Agilis' receiving designation as an Orphan Medicinal Product is another
exciting milestone achieved for the Angelman syndrome community," said Paula
Evans, Director of FAST. "We are thrilled with the news and are looking forward
to participating in clinical trials when the therapeutic is available for
evaluation."

EC Orphan Designation is granted to drugs that are intended for the treatment of
life threatening or chronically debilitating rare diseases where no therapeutic
options either exist or are satisfactory. Rare diseases are those defined as
having a prevalence of less than five in 10,000 in Europe. The designation
provides sponsors with development and commercial incentives, including 10 years
of market exclusivity, prioritized consultation by EMA on the development of the
drug, including clinical studies, and certain exemptions from or reductions in
regulatory fees.

Source: Agilis Biotherapeutics

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2016 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              339 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                     November 4, 2015 Wednesday 6:30 AM EST

Agilis Biotherapeutics Announces FDA Orphan Drug Designation for AGIL-AS for
Treatment of Angelman Syndrome

LENGTH: 549  words


Nov. 4 -- Agilis Biotherapeutics, LLC (Agilis), a biotechnology company
advancing innovative DNA therapeutics for rare genetic diseases that affect the
central nervous system (CNS), announced today that the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration (FDA) has granted Orphan Drug Designation to AGIL-AS, the
Company's gene therapy product candidate being developed for the treatment of
Angelman syndrome (AS), a neuro-genetic disorder characterized by severe
intellectual and developmental disability. AGIL-AS is being investigated as a
new therapeutic to treat AS by delivering a corrective UBE3A gene to rescue
neurological deficits in patients suffering from this rare disease. This is the
first drug to be granted an Orphan Drug Designation status by the U.S. FDA for
the indication of Angelman syndrome.

AS is a rare genetic disorder caused by the deletion/mutation of the UBE3A gene.
UBE3A encodes the ubiquitin ligase E6-AP, a protein which plays a critical role
in the function of the central nervous system. Characteristic features of the
condition include delayed development, intellectual disability, severe speech
impairment, seizures and ataxia. According to The Foundation for Angelman
Syndrome Therapeutics (FAST), the disorder strikes an estimated 1 in 15,000 live
births.

"Receiving orphan drug designation from the FDA for AGIL-AS is another step on
our path to bringing this important new medicine to patients in dire need of an
effective, durable treatment. Moreover, it signifies a landmark event, as it
marks the first Angelman syndrome drug to achieve this regulatory milestone,"
stated Mark Pykett, President and CEO of Agilis. "We're extremely pleased that
we continue to make important clinical and regulatory progress, positioning us
to advance this new treatment to address such a devastating disease."

In May, the Company entered into an exclusive worldwide license agreement with
the University of South Florida (USF) for the treatment of AS using gene therapy
technology developed by Edwin Weeber, PhD, Professor, Molecular Pharmacology and
Physiology, Director of the Neurobiology of Learning and Memory, and Chief
Scientific Officer at the USF Health Byrd Alzheimer's Research Institute, and
one of the world's foremost AS investigators. Dr. Weeber and colleagues have
published proof-of-concept of UBE3A gene therapy and established efficacy of
gene therapy in the central nervous system in models of AS.

"Agilis' Orphan Drug Designation for AGIL-AS is an important step forward for
the technology and for the Angelman syndrome community," Dr. Weeber stated.
"Restoration of UBE3A function using gene therapy has the potential to address
many of the neurological symptoms of AS and to positively impact the quality of
life of AS patients."

FDA Orphan Drug Designation is evaluated for drugs from all classes (e.g. small
molecules, proteins, and gene or cell therapies) that are intended for the
treatment of rare diseases, defined as diseases affecting fewer than 200,000
people in the United States. The designation provides sponsors with development
and commercial incentives, including seven years of market exclusivity in the
US, prioritized consultation by FDA on clinical studies, and certain exemptions
from or reductions in regulatory fees.

Source: Agilis Biotherapeutics

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2015 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              340 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily European Edition

                           September 4, 2014 Thursday

Caring out of the ordinary

BYLINE: Zhao Xu

SECTION: COVER STORY

LENGTH: 721 words


Understanding, family support remain crucial for Chinese children suffering from
rare diseases, reports Zhao Xu.

It has been three years, but Li Jia still remembers the day when she looked into
her daughter's eyes and saw nothing.

"Her eyes wandered past me to focus, in an unfathomable gaze, on the motionless
tree leaves outside our apartment window. There was no flame of excitement, no
glint of curiosity, not even a faint glimmer of interest inside her dewy eyes,
only the blurry outlines of the tree," recalled the mother, in a voice as
calming as it was emotionally disturbing.

"For a brief moment, I felt my heart had been hollowed out. I was terrified."

What soon came after that fateful day was a discovery that plunged the whole
family into turbulent waters. Li's daughter, An An, then merely 16 months old,
was diagnosed with Rett syndrome, a sporadic neurological disorder that strikes
one in every 15,000 people, predominantly female.

In its early stages, the syndrome's symptoms are similar to that of autism.
Although patients gradually open up, in most cases, they will be unable to use
their hands or feet, or develop any verbal skills, as a direct result of the
brain damage. The majority fail to live beyond their 30s.

"It was excruciatingly painful - I cried my eyes out. But we persisted, living
on day by day with all the mishaps and mayhem of the disease while hoping for
the best," said the 36-year-old mother.

"In retrospect, any possible road leading to the future begins with acceptance;
to accept the illness for what it really is. For a child patient, that
acceptance starts to build with his or her family."

Yet that process could take years, said Wei Min, a leading pediatrician with
Peking Union Medical College Hospital in Beijing.

"Upon being told the bad news, some parents just collapsed, while others sat
there, dumbfounded, seeing and hearing no more. But all would eventually manage
a reprieve from the initial shock to ask the same question: 'How could this be
true?' And you know instinctively that no amount of medical knowledge would help
here," said Wei, 69.

"Quite often, such denials are aided by the fact that rare diseases, by
definition, are diseases that hit only a tiny segment of the population."

Rough figures

In the United States, the Rare Diseases Act of 2002 defines the term as any
disease or condition that affects fewer than 200,000 people in the country, or
about one in 1,500 people. In Japan, that ratio is set at about one in 2,500
people.

However, ratio alone can give the wrong impression, and in a country as populous
as China, "tiny" means more than 15 million people, Wei said.

"The 15 million figure often cited for China is a rough estimate at best, since
we have no official definition for 'rare diseases' and have conducted no
comprehensive census on the number of sufferers. Among them, nearly 70 percent
are children."

Wang Yi'ou is the founder of the Beijing-based NGO China-Dolls Center For Rare
Disorders. After suffering repeated fractures since 1, Wang was diagnosed with
osteogenesis imperfecta, also known as brittle bone disease, at the age of 16.
Hitting one per 20,000 live births, the congenital disease gives its victims
defective connective tissue, rendering them petite "China dolls" with stunted
growth and fragile bones.

"There was one time two years ago, when we sent a copy of our monthly magazine
to an address we believed to have belonged to a fellow patient. A few days
later, we got a reply, in the form of a mail parcel, which contained a pair of
scissors and a scribbling of words. It basically read: 'Dare to send me another
copy and I'll commit suicide in front of you'," said Wang, 32.

"A phone call soon followed, made by a woman who admitted to subscribing our
magazine with the address. It was not meant for her son, who had brittle bone
disease, but for herself and her husband, the heartbroken mother told us."

"She said, 'It kills my son to be reminded that he's a rare-disease patient. I
don't know how he found the magazine, but please, don't send it, never again!'"
Wang said.

"Telling from my own experience, the boy's denial of his own condition, and by
extension himself, has stemmed in large part from the evasiveness adopted by his
entire family against the disease. What was meant to be protection ended up to
be harm."


LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 China Daily Information Co
                              All Rights Reserved


                              341 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                           The Advertiser (Australia)

                               May 7, 2017 Sunday
                               Advertiser Edition

Tim's a man in a million

BYLINE: MARTINA SIMOS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 518  words


Miracle recovery - now his blood helps unlock medical secrets

TIM Went is a one in a million guy - and that is a fact.

Mr Went, 74, of Glenelg, was diagnosed with a rare disease, Goodpasture syndrome
, which causes kidney failure and requires dialysis.

But, having miraculously regained most of his kidney function, he donated blood
to medical researchers interstate who were trying to solve how genetic risk
factors can cause or protect people from auto-immune diseases.

The former boatbuilder went to his doctor almost two years ago when he started
feeling lethargic and became sick.

"My doctor said you don't look too good. We better do a blood test," Mr Went
said.

"The next day he rang me and said come and collect a letter because your kidneys
have all but stopped working." He said it "rattled my cage" to hear that his
kidneys were about to stop working.

Mr Went was rushed to the renal unit at the Royal Adelaide Hospital and within
24 hours was diagnosed with Goodpasture syndrome and told he would be on
dialysis for the rest of his life. But, thanks to an early diagnosis and
immediate dialysis treatment, a medical miracle - that doctors are unable to
explain - resulted in the international yachting judge regaining up to 30 per
cent of his kidney function.

"(I was told) your kidneys have started working again, think yourself lucky," Mr
Went said.

His renal specialist asked him if a blood sample could be sent to Professor
Richard Kitching, director of the Monash Centre for Inflammatory Diseases. A
team there has spent the better part of a decade investigating why some people
are at risk of getting auto-immune diseases while others are protected.

"One per million per year get (Goodpasture syndrome) so it's an uncommon or rare
disease. Every year if there's a million people in the population then one
person gets it," Prof Kitching told the Sunday Mail.

Autoimmune diseases affect more than one million Australians and, in the Western
world, are a leading cause of death in women under the age of 65. These diseases
include type 1 diabetes, multiple sclerosis, Crohn's disease, ulcerative
colitis, rheumatoid arthritis and several types of kidney disease.

The breakthrough research has answered why some autoimmune systems "go rogue and
attack parts of the body" despite immune systems evolving over time to fight
infections and disease.

"But this sometimes goes wrong and our immune system recognises parts of our own
body as being foreign. This leads to an auto-immune disease," Prof Kitching
said.

"We have known that in auto-immune diseases there are T-cells that make us
susceptible to disease and T-cells that protect us from disease.

"In Goodpasture disease, when the molecule DR15 is present, it can select and
instruct T-cells to attack the body. If alone in our body, these damaging cells
can attack the body's tissues, resulting in very ill patients.

"But when people also have the protective DR1 molecule present, these T-cells
are held at bay and can be overturned."The study was published recently in
prestigious international journal Nature, which features groundbreaking
scientific research.

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: The Advertiser


                   Copyright 2017 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              342 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                           The Advertiser (Australia)

                               May 7, 2017 Sunday
                              Advertiser2 Edition

Tim's a man in a million

BYLINE: MARTINA SIMOS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 518  words


Miracle recovery - now his blood helps unlock medical secrets

TIM Went is a one in a million guy - and that is a fact.

Mr Went, 74, of Glenelg, was diagnosed with a rare disease, Goodpasture syndrome
, which causes kidney failure and requires dialysis.

But, having miraculously regained most of his kidney function, he donated blood
to medical researchers interstate who were trying to solve how genetic risk
factors can cause or protect people from auto-immune diseases.

The former boatbuilder went to his doctor almost two years ago when he started
feeling lethargic and became sick.

"My doctor said you don't look too good. We better do a blood test," Mr Went
said.

"The next day he rang me and said come and collect a letter because your kidneys
have all but stopped working." He said it "rattled my cage" to hear that his
kidneys were about to stop working.

Mr Went was rushed to the renal unit at the Royal Adelaide Hospital and within
24 hours was diagnosed with Goodpasture syndrome and told he would be on
dialysis for the rest of his life. But, thanks to an early diagnosis and
immediate dialysis treatment, a medical miracle - that doctors are unable to
explain - resulted in the international yachting judge regaining up to 30 per
cent of his kidney function.

"(I was told) your kidneys have started working again, think yourself lucky," Mr
Went said.

His renal specialist asked him if a blood sample could be sent to Professor
Richard Kitching, director of the Monash Centre for Inflammatory Diseases. A
team there has spent the better part of a decade investigating why some people
are at risk of getting auto-immune diseases while others are protected.

"One per million per year get (Goodpasture syndrome) so it's an uncommon or rare
disease. Every year if there's a million people in the population then one
person gets it," Prof Kitching told the Sunday Mail.

Autoimmune diseases affect more than one million Australians and, in the Western
world, are a leading cause of death in women under the age of 65. These diseases
include type 1 diabetes, multiple sclerosis, Crohn's disease, ulcerative
colitis, rheumatoid arthritis and several types of kidney disease.

The breakthrough research has answered why some autoimmune systems "go rogue and
attack parts of the body" despite immune systems evolving over time to fight
infections and disease.

"But this sometimes goes wrong and our immune system recognises parts of our own
body as being foreign. This leads to an auto-immune disease," Prof Kitching
said.

"We have known that in auto-immune diseases there are T-cells that make us
susceptible to disease and T-cells that protect us from disease.

"In Goodpasture disease, when the molecule DR15 is present, it can select and
instruct T-cells to attack the body. If alone in our body, these damaging cells
can attack the body's tissues, resulting in very ill patients.

"But when people also have the protective DR1 molecule present, these T-cells
are held at bay and can be overturned."The study was published recently in
prestigious international journal Nature, which features groundbreaking
scientific research.

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: The Advertiser


                   Copyright 2017 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              343 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                            February 29, 2016 Monday

Gaucher's needs early treatment

BYLINE: Durgesh Nandan Jha

SECTION: DELHI

LENGTH: 344 words


New Delhi: In a country where thousands die due to rare diseases before
celebrating their first birthday, Sashank Tyagi has survived for 26 years with
Gaucher's disease. The Ghaziabad resident is one of the oldest surviving
Gaucher's patient in India, say doctors.

Gaucher's disease is a genetic disorder in which fat gets accumulated around
vital organs. "If left untreated, most patients die within the first year of
their birth. A few who survive longer become debilitated and dependent," said Dr
I C Verma, director, center of medical genetics at Sir Ganga Ram Hospital.

According to Dr Verma, Tyagi's case is an example which shows how children with
rare diseases can survive longer with the right treatment. It has been possible
due to enzyme replacement therapy given to him on compassionate grounds by a
drug manufacturer. "However, most people can't afford it. Hence, we want the
government to come up with a policy to help such patients," he said. The
hospital is organising an awareness programme on Monday-International Rare
Diseases Day.

Thalassemia, Down syndrome, MPS and Wilson's disease are some other genetic
disorders that affect about 7 crore people in India. A study conducted by Indian
Council of Medical Research showed that the incidence of inborn errors of
metabolism, that cause some of the rare diseases, is much higher in India than
in the West. Many such people can be saved by timely treatment with special diet
and medicines, said Dr Ratna Puri, medical geneticist.

The Delhi government recently formed a committee to develop a policy for
tackling these diseases and providing treatment. Speaking to TOI, Tyagi, an MBA
graduate, said he feels helpless. "We are only a handful in number. That's why
the governments ignore us," he said.

Health experts stress on the need for increasing awareness and compulsory
prenatal screening in vulnerable population. "Awareness, accessibility and
affordability are key needs of such patients," said Prasanna Shirol, founder
member, Organisation for Rare Disease India.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              344 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                           September 25, 2006, Monday

Drug that transforms lives of sick children 'too costly'

BYLINE: Nigel Hawkes Health Editor

SECTION: HOME NEWS; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 618 words


A NEW drug that could transform the lives of children with a rare genetic
condition might be judged too expensive for the NHS.

Hunter Syndrome was in the headlines last year when Andrew Wragg, 40, a former
SAS soldier, was driven to despair by the decline of his son Jacob, 10, and
smothered him with a pillow. The father, from Worthing, was cleared of murder
and given a suspended sentence for manslaughter with diminished responsibility.

The fatal syndrome, suffered almost exclusively by boys, is caused by a
defective enzyme that is unable to break down complex sugars produced as waste
products in the body. These compounds, called mucopolysaccharides, accumulate in
the tissues and organs and cause worsening physical and mental health problems.

The new drug, Elaprase, developed by Shire Pharmaceuticals, has been approved in
the US and is expected to be licensed in Europe by the end of the year. Given by
infusion, it improves breathing and movement. Parents of some Hunter children
say it has transformed them.

But it will cost at least £ 100,000 per child per year, and as much as £ 300,000
for older, heavier patients who need bigger doses. Although the number of Hunter
children in the UK is small -no more than about 100 -the cost of providing it
for all of them could well be prohibitive.

A patients' group has been lobbying ministers to confirm that the drug will be
funded under a special scheme for children with rare diseases. Christine Lavery,
chief executive of The Society for Mucopolysaccharide Diseases (SMD), said:
"Funding for treatments for rare diseases similar to Hunter Syndrome is due to
end at Christmas. We expect that to be extended. But there has been no promise
that the Department of Health will fund the new drug for Hunter Syndrome.

"All our questions and requests for clarification of the position have met with
a lack of response, which leads us to fear the worst."

Although not a cure the drug, which replaces the missing enzyme, may allow
affected children to lead near-normal lives if the condition is picked up early.

Dr Ed Wraith, a consultant at the Royal Manchester Children's Hospital, said:
"With this disease, there is damage to the heart, liver, brain and other organs,
which invariably leads to death before the age of 20. The treatment is a major
breakthrough and it would be a tragedy if the DoH didn't provide the money."

The department said: "No decision has yet been made on whether this expensive
drug will be funded."

The same is likely to be the case north of the Border, where the Scottish
Medicines Consortium has refused a related drug for a girl with a similar
condition.

Bob Wragg, 64, grandfather of Jacob, said: "Thank God they have found a
treatment at last." His wife, Anne, a nurse, said: "A lot of people just don't
understand the torment that Andrew went through caring for Jacob and seeing him
get worse and worse."

An adult sufferer of the syndrome, Colin Arrowsmith, 26, from Newcastle, has
been receiving Elaprase weekly as part of a trial since February 2004.

He had already defied doctors' predictions that he would be dead by his early
teens and, until five years ago, was able to live independently. He worked in
the mailroom of an electricity company but was forced to give it up because his
hips began to crumble. This forced him into a wheelchair and made him more
reliant on his parents.

His mother, Barbara, said: "He was picking up lots of infections and his liver
and spleen were very large. Since he began the weekly infusions, his general
health is better and his liver and spleen are no longer swollen. He has a lot
more energy.

"The treatment won't reverse the damage done but we've been told that it should
prevent further damage."

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              345 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                                Sunday Mail (SA)

                            October 1, 2000, Sunday

Sarah beats rare disease

BYLINE: RACHEL HANCOCK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 309 words


MOTHER of four Sarah Dyson savors every step she takes in life.

Struck down with a rare disease which left her totally paralysed, she has spent
a gruelling 12 months learning to walk again.

Known as Guillain Barre Syndrome (GBS), the sudden disorder can occur at any age
with symptoms including inability to breathe, abnormal heartbeat, lung
infection, blood clots and complete paralysis.

Mrs Dyson, 34, was hospitalised for more than three months after waking up with
a tingling sensation in her feet.

"By the afternoon, it was quite definite in my fingertips, and then I felt the
tingling in my face," she said.

Because the syndrome is so rare, doctors initially had difficulty diagnosing Mrs
Dyson until she visited Ashford Hospital after returning from a Perth holiday
almost unable to walk.

"It was the first time I have ever thought about death," she said.

"The shock on the kids' faces when they saw me is something I will never forget
-- I looked like I had a stroke.

"I went from a woman who did everything for everyone to one who needed
everything done for me."

Her husband, Mark, was forced to juggle running his business from home with
caring for their four young children as his wife battled to recover.

An intense rehabilitation schedule at Memorial Hospital saw her slowly regain
movement in her legs and arms.

"There were definitely times where you feel sorry for yourself, but they didn't
last very long," she said.

"I had five very good reasons to cope."

The cause of GBS is not known, but its onset is believed to follow a viral
infection, insect sting or unrelated surgery.

While still without sensation in her feet and fingertips, Mrs Dyson said she was
glad to be back leading a busy lifestyle again.

"I know it's an absolute cliche that you shouldn't take life for granted, but it
is so true."

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: SUM

                   Copyright 2000 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                              346 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                     February 6, 2013 Wednesday 6:30 AM EST

Decision Resources: Through 2018, Five New Drugs will Launch for the Treatment
of Myelodysplastic Syndromes

LENGTH: 546  words


New Delhi, Feb. 6 -- Decision Resources, one of the world's leading research and
advisory firms for pharmaceutical and healthcare issues, finds that, through
2018, five new drugs will launch for the treatment of myelodysplastic syndromes
(MDS), three of which are expected to offer much-needed second-line therapeutic
options in the hypomethylating agent (HMA)-refractory higher-risk MDS
population. Currently, there is only one curative treatment for MDS --
allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplant (HSCT). However, old age and poor
general performance status classifies approximately 75 percent of patients as
ineligible for this treatment.



Between 2004 and 2006, the U.S. MDS market expanded when the first drug therapy
options were approved for the indication -- azacitidine (Celgene's Vidaza),
lenalidomide (Celgene's Revlimid) and decitabine (Eisai/MGI Pharma's Dacogen).
No new therapies have been approved in the United States for MDS since 2006;
only azacitidine has been approved for MDS in Europe, although experts believe
an EU approval for lenalidomide is imminent.

According to Niche Markets and Rare Diseases: Myelodysplastic Syndromes,
azacitidine is the leading therapeutic option for the disease in both the U.S.
and Europe. Decision Resources anticipates expansion of MDS therapeutic options
with the approval of five drugs between 2014-2018: oral azacitidine for
transfusion-dependent lower-risk MDS; Onconova/Baxter's intravenous formulation
of rigosertib (Estybon) for HMA-refractory higher-risk MDS; Merck's vorinostat
(Zolinza) for combination therapy with azacitidine in higher-risk MDS;
Cyclacel's oral sapacitabine for HMA-refractory higher-risk MDS; and
GlaxoSmithKline's eltrombopag (Revolade) for HMA-refractory higher-risk MDS,
with a focal goal of reducing thrombocytopenia. Onconova also has an oral
formulation of rigosertib in development for lower-risk patients.

"The near-term MDS drug market will grow modestly as lenalidomide obtains
approval in Europe, but the next wave of noteworthy market growth will come
between 2014 and 2018," said Decision Resources Vice President Kim Crowell .
"While experts acknowledge that the approvals of azacitidine and lenalidomide
were groundbreaking, they also report significant remaining unmet need in MDS.
Citing the dearth of second-line options for higher-risk MDS patients, experts
are hopeful that several Phase II and III drugs will provide valuable
alternative therapeutic options, although they do not expect any drug during the
next decade to completely shift or uproot the MDS therapeutic landscape.
Improving overall survival, without sacrificing quality of life, is the key
therapeutic goal in higher risk MDS patients, while functional quality of life
via hematologic improvement is the primary goal in lower-risk patients."

About Myelodysplastic Syndromes

Myelodysplastic Syndromes is offered as part of Decision Resources' Niche
Markets and Rare Diseases service. Each report assesses opportunity in a select
drug market across the United States, France, Germany, Italy, Spain and the
United Kingdom. The report provides detailed coverage of patient populations,
current therapies, unmet needs and emerging therapies, and includes primary
research with country-specific thought leaders.

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2013 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              347 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                Watford Observer

                            December 19, 2016 Monday

'Build for Shay': Dad wants to build special bedroom for son with rare disease

BYLINE: Rhys Handley

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 264 words


A father is trying to build a special bedroom his son who is living with a rare
disease only 100 children have been diagnosed with.

Shay Murray, of Carpenders Park, has Pearson syndrome, a mitochondrial disease
which usually kills children before they reach the age of three and has to share
a bedroom with his parents.

His father Alan has started the Build for Shay campaign to build a palliative
care suite so Shay, who has beaten the odds by reaching nine years of age, can
have his own bedroom he can use in comfort.

On a JustGiving page, Alan has so far raised nearly £2,000 of his £30,000 target
along with a grant awarded by Watford council.

He said: "Not many people know about Mitochondrial Disease, there are few
supportive treatments relieving symptoms but no cure.

"Shay's cells do not have the energy to make his body's organs work properly
like how if a car does not have enough battery power, the car will not start no
matter how new it is.

"He lives life to the absolute fullest and always smiling.

"No one knows how long they have in this world but our time with Shay is very
precious.

"Every day, hour, minute is a blessing."

The syndrome will affect Shay's eyesight, hearing and organs before eventually
reaching his brain.

He currently has mobility problems, struggling with simple physical tasks, and
has to use wheelchairs to get around.

Only a handful of children get past five years and the oldest Pearson child
recently died at the age of 14.

Shay is under the palliative care team at Keech and Great Ormond Street
Hospital.

Donations are being taken for Build for Shay here.

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              348 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                          December 13, 2006 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1

Fun-loving dad dies from rare disease

BYLINE: By Peter Taylor, The Evening Chronicle

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 390 words


Fun-loving family man Ernie Young looked forward all year to a holiday in Crete
with his wife Sheila.

But on their first day in the resort of Stalis, happy-go-lucky Ernie was struck
down by a rare disease from which he died just over three weeks later.

A British pathologist concluded the 56-year-old died from Budd-Chiari syndrome,
a rare liver disorder that results from blood clotting in the veins flowing out
of it.

Machine setter Mr Young, of Exeter Close, Ashington, Northumberland, had been
looking forward to karaoke nights with his wife, also aged 56.

But instead he spent 18 days in hospital in the island's capital Heraklion
before being flown back to the North East and admitted to Wansbeck General
Hospital. He died after suffering a heart attack related to the disease.

Doctors in the Greek hospital found he had developed Hepatitis C. But
pathologist Dr David Smith, at the Ashington hospital, concluded this was not
linked to his death.

His post-mortem report said: "This man has died of an extremely rare and unusual
complication of malignant disease, namely the acute Budd-Chiari syndrome.

"The cause of death is entirely natural."

His devastated wife said: "It is very, very rare.

"My doctor is going to go through it with me to try to help me understand it a
bit more.

"I am still just getting my head around it.

"He was so young. We thought we would grow old together.

"I will just have to get used to being on my own.

"We love Greece and had been a few times before.

"We went off on holiday and on the first night his stomach swelled up.

"He was 18 nights in hospital there and I visited him every day.

"The doctors in Crete were brilliant but they didn't know where all the fluid
was coming from.

"He just swelled up with fluid."

Ernie died the day before the 31st anniversary of his wedding to Sheila.

The couple had two daughters, Julie, 35, and Sarah, 30.

Along with his mother, Dorothy, 84, they are all devastated by the loss of the
fun-loving former Navy medic, who loved nothing better than a karaoke night at
which he could sing his favourite song Rhinestone Cowboy.

He died after the high pressure of blood in the veins from his liver led to an
enlarged liver and to an accumulation of fluid in the abdomen, called ascites.

Coroner Ian McCreath recorded a verdict of death by natural causes at an inquest
on Mr Young held at Morpeth.

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2006 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              349 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                             March 5, 2015 Thursday

Online Lennox-Gastaut syndrome (LGS) Research Survey Open for Caregivers

LENGTH: 176  words

DATELINE: Denver


UBM Marketing and Communications Services has issued the following Press
release:

Find A Cure Panel specializes in patient research for serious and rare diseases
and conditions, including Lennox-Gastaut syndrome (LGS). They currently have a
confidential and anonymous online survey for parents of children with
Lennox-Gastaut syndrome (LGS) who live in the United States.

This Lennox-Gastaut syndrome (LGS) research asks for the opinions and
experiences of those with Lennox-Gastaut syndrome (LGS) as to their condition
and treatment. Participants in this Lennox-Gastaut syndrome (LGS) research will
provide treatment providers with a stronger understanding of the challenges
facing those who Lennox-Gastaut syndrome (LGS).

This online survey takes about 20 minutes to complete.  No personal and
identifying information is provided to the researchers. If you complete the
survey, Find a Cure Panel will donate $100 to a non profit of your choice.

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              350 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Mirror

                              March 6, 2016 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Help us to raise £3.5m to give kids like these a chance of life Q&A;
CAMPAIGN TO SAVE LIVES OF CHILDREN WITH RARE DISEASES EXCLUSIVE

BYLINE: DAN WARBURTON; MARTYN HALLE

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 12,13

LENGTH: 1544 words


EACH of the children on these pages is desperately ill. All are fighting some of
the rarest and most complex deadly diseases.

Yet they have been given a lifeline thanks to a remarkable NHS unit.

Some of the patients who arrive in its wards had been sent home to die, their
rare illnesses deemed to be untreatable.

But in Birmingham Children's Hospital, they have the best chance of survival
they can get. Today the Sunday Mirror launches SARAH-JANE CHILDREN's a campaign
to ensure other children get that same chance as the youngsters pictured here.

We're helping this amazing hospital kick-start its Star Appeal which aims to
raise £3.5million to develop a world-class Rare Diseases Centre that will give
hope to thousands of suffering youngsters. Today families who flock to the
Midlands from as far afield as Northern Ireland to access the hospital's
life-saving treatment are asking YOU for your help.

Currently Birmingham Children's Hospital treats more than one in 20 of all
children from across the UK who suffer rare diseases.

That accounts for more than 9,000 youngsters a year fighting more than 500
frightening illnesses.

Specialists show that 75 per cent of all rare diseases affect children, with 30
per cent of all patients dying before the age of five. The Government funds
treatment on the NHS - but it is up to fundraising initiatives to bankroll new
buildings.

Chief medical officer Fiona Reynolds, who has worked at Birmingham for more than
15 years as a paediatric intensive care doctor, said: "We look after six per
cent of all the children who suffer rare diseases b who come from around the UK,
including Cambridge, Norfolk, Northern Ireland, all for the experts we have
here.

""The definition of rare diseases is that they affect about one in 10,000
people.

"We want to create a unit so we can bring together our experts and have a
critical mass of people who have the knowledge and expertise in the right
place."

The unit specialises in the most complex heart conditions, chronic liver and
kidney diseases, cancer, serious burns, epilepsy neurology and cystic fibrosis.

It is also home to Europe's largest single site paediatric intensive care unit,
a 24-hour accident and emergency service, regional major trauma centre and
revolutionary new mental health service for under-25s. But when patients with
rare diseases visit the centre, they are often made to make multiple visits to
different areas of the hospital.

It's hoped the new centre will provide a "one-stop shop" for patients and their
families, including services such as diagnosis, assessments, treatment,
information, research and peer-to-peer support.

Mum-of-two Sarah-Jane Marsh, chief executive of the Birmingham Children's
Hospital, said: "We are seeing more and more children with very rare and complex
conditions who need a lot of support."

Children like five-year-old Elsie Welsey who was born with an illness that
affected the development of her kidneys.

Now, thanks to Birmingham Children's hospital, she is thriving.

Sarah-Jane says: "Each and every child is special and we should be treating them
all that way. That's what this new centre will help us to do."

dan.warburton@trinitymirror.com

Skye Gardner, eight, from Wolverhampton: Williams Syndrome

Eight-year-old Skye has a rare genetic disorder that affects many parts of her
body.

This condition is characterised by mild to moderate learning difficulties, heart
and kidney problems and developmental delays. It took until Skye was three years
old for her family to receive a definitive diagnosis.

Skye has had seven stays in hospital and has undergone open-heart surgery.

Visits to the hospital mean that both Skye and her brother have to miss school -
and her mother, Laura, has to take time off from her busy job as a nursery
nurse.

Lila Bellamy, 11, of Birmingham: Tuberous Sclerosis

Lila's multi-system genetic disease causes benign tumours to grow in the
kidneys, heart, eyes, lungs, and skin. It can affect the brain causing
developmental delays, epilepsy and learning difficulties. In Lila's case it
presents as severe kidney disease. She is cared for by a number of specialists
and needs up to four visits a month.

LILA Zak Redhead, 13, of Coventry: Tuberous Scelerosis and Polycystic Kidneys:
Zak was diagnosed with his kidney disease at three months. Then, when he was
one, doctors found he had Tuberous Sclerosis too which has left him with
non-malignant tumours mainly on his brain causing him to suffer epilepsy and
ruling out contact sports such as football. Zak's kidneys function at just 37
per cent so he is in line for a kidney transplant. His mum Teresa says:

"Zak is a lovely and caring son. It is our dream that one day his kidneys will
be healthy."

Abigail Hancock, 16, of Leicester: Tuberous Sclerosis

Abigail was first admitted to Birmingham Children's Hospital when she was a baby
following a string of epileptic fits.

After an MRI scan she was diagnosed with Tuberous Sclerosis, a rare condition
that causes mainly non-cancerous tumours to develop in different parts of the
body.

Over the past 16 years, medics discovered tumours all over her body, sparking
health problems including epilepsy, skin abnormalities and extensive learning
difficulties.

She has also developed Double Scoliosis, which means her spine has grown in an
S-shape, with only the top and bottom in line with each other.

Her tumours have also spread across her body, including to the back of her eyes,
with only her liver and lungs now suspected to be tumour-free.

Caden Robb, six, from Kidderminster: Urethral Atresia

Caden was born with this very rare congenital defect that caused a blockage to
develop in his bladder and resulted in irreparable damage to his kidneys before
he was born.

The condition, which was picked up during a routine pre-natal scan, meant he had
to have his bladder completely reconstructed during a 13-hour op. A bright,
chatty boy mad about dinosaurs, Caden and his mum have to make around three
trips a week to the unit.

Elsie Wesley, five, from Tamworth, Staffs: Branchiootorenal Syndrome

Elsie was diagnosed with chronic renal failure at just two days old before
medics discovered she was suffering from this rare genetic condition which
affects the development of her ears, nose, throat and kidneys.

She was born without a left kidney and an abnormal right kidney, which means
that she requires frequent feeds of fluid to keep her hydrated.

Elsie had a gastrostomy operation in March 2012 in which a feeding button was
fitted directly into her stomach.

In December 2014 she received a kidney transplant with her father as donor.

Marcus Tilley-Young, two, of Wolverhampton: Down's Syndrome with Chronic Kidney
Disease

Marcus was born with a combination of illnesses that has meant he has needed
treatment since birth.

He was nine weeks premature and his kidneys did not develop properly. He had a
catheter fitted into his pubis as his valves were blocked. He has had nine
appointments in just over a year.

Nathan Saunders, 13, of Nuneaton, Warwicks: Undiagnosed

Nathan has been a patient since a few days old. When he was born his right
kidney was obstructed and three years ago he had to have a transplant.

His illness and the combination of medicines he needs to take means that his
immune system is very weak.

Earlier this year he contracted a very rare microbacterial infection that
attacked his lymph nodes, resulting in more surgery and high doses of
antibiotics.

Q & A

Why is the Star Appeal special?

By raising £3.65million, Birmingham Children's Hospital Charity will be able to
build a new centre to improve the lives of thousands of families from across the
UK who have children battling a rare or undiagnosed medical condition.

The first of its kind in the UK, the Rare Diseases Centre will provide patients
with one-stop access to a team of health experts, all from different
specialties, who will collaborate to assess and diagnose children. The unit will
include the UK's first holistic dedicated Paediatric Rare Disease Centre. The
aim is to build on the excellent care Birmingham provides to rare diseases
patients, using its expert clinical knowledge and skilled research teams to
become a national rare diseases centre.

Why will it improve diagnoses? The new centre will ensure shared clinical care
across departments happens as standard practice, meaning that care is
coordinated and bespoke to each patient.

A worrying number of rare disease sufferers receive incorrect diagnoses before
the final diagnosis at Birmingham Children's Hospital is made. About 46 per cent
of the UK's rare diseases patients wait over 12 months to get the right
diagnosis. What is a rare disease? It's a life-threatening or chronically
debilitating disease that affects five people or fewer in 10,000 and requires
special, combined efforts to enable patients to be treated effectively.

Many rare diseases are genetic. Each affects only 0.1 per cent of people but
together they affect the lives of 3.5 million in the UK. Well-known conditions
include Cystic Fibrosis and Huntington's disease, but there are many lesser
known such as Epidermolysis Bullosa and Lysosomal Storage Disorders that
children can inherit from their parents.

Each child should be treated as special. It's what new unit will do SARAH-JANE
MARSH CHILDREN'S HOSPITAL CHIEF

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: are often made to SURVIVOR Elsie with her mum Kelly

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SMR


                            Copyright 2016 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              351 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                               TODAY (Singapore)

                          February 24, 2016 Wednesday
                                  APM Edition

Every day is a fight for toddler's survival

BYLINE: Eveline Gan

SECTION: HLC; Focus; Singapore; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 943 words



HIGHLIGHT: Parents of little girl with 'floppy baby syndrome' share their tale
ahead of Rare Disease Day


SINGAPORE - For their 15-month-old daughter, who might not live to see her next
birthday, Mr Xie Dingshan and Mrs Xie Jiyi are determined to make every moment
count and help their little one in her battle to survive.

Born with the most severe form of spinal muscular atrophy - Type 1 -Xin Lin
cannot lift her head, sit up, eat or breathe on her own. But the rare and
incurable disease has not affected her mental and emotional development, and she
lights up whenever she sees her healthy older sister, aged 3. Her doting parents
and grandparents perform physiotherapy exercises with her every day to help
maintain her remaining muscle strength.

Respiratory infections have landed her in hospital multiple times, and her
family feared the worst in an episode on National Day last year.

"We thought she was really leaving us," said Mr Xie, 36, a manager. "One of the
suggestions given to us during her intensive care unit stay was not to use
invasive intervention to prolong her life. Perhaps to that person's medically
trained mind, we were prolonging her suffering, but how can we stop fighting for
her life when she has been fighting to survive?"

Sharing their story to raise awareness ahead of Rare Disease Day, which takes
place on the last day of February every year, Mr Xie said: "What our daughter
has is so rare that the odds of winning the lottery are probably even higher."

Not all doctors know about Type 1 spinal muscular atrophy, and Xin Lin's
condition was missed during a development check-up when she was three months
old, said Mr Xie.

The doctor had thought she was "just slow".When she was eventually diagnosed,
the family was hit hard by the fact that her condition was incurable.

The disease causes muscles to weaken progressively and claims the majority of
lives by the age of two due to breathing problems, although some individuals
live longer, said Dr Tan Ee Shien, senior consultant at Genetics Service at KK
Women's and Children's Hospital's (KKH) Department of Paediatrics.

Children with the condition, dubbed the "floppy baby syndrome", experience
weakness and limpness in the neck and limbs.

Following Xin Lin's diagnosis, her parents underwent a genetic test and found
that they were both carriers of the spinal muscular atrophy gene, which meant a
one in four chance of their child having the condition.

MAJORITY LINKED TO GENETIC CAUSES

A rare disease may affect one in 2,000 people or fewer. About 80 per cent of
rare diseases are linked to genetic causes, said Dr Wendy Liew, consultant at
Neurology Service at KKH's Department of Paediatrics. In such cases, it is often
a mutation in a critical gene that leads to the disease, said Dr Tan. "While
there is a family history of the condition in some cases, most are the first
occurrence in the family," she said.

Rare diseases can cause significant disability as they can affect many different
organ systems at once, she added. KKH sees three to four cases of Type 1 spinal
muscular atrophy each year. There are about 6,000 to 8,000 known rare diseases
worldwide, but their prevalence in Singapore is not known as there is currently
no registry here that keeps track of patients.

According to Mr Kenneth Mah, vice-president of the Rare Disorders Society
(Singapore), about half of these uncommon diseases do not have a
disease-specific foundation supporting or researching them. About 30 per cent of
children with rare diseases will die before reaching their fifth birthday unless
early intervention is given, said Mr Mah, whose non-profit provides financial
and emotional support to 75 families affected by rare diseases.

Xin Lin is one of the society's youngest beneficiaries, who range from age one
to 17. Her family also receives support from groups such as the Muscular
Dystrophy Association Singapore, KKH's homecare team and Star PALS (Paediatric
Advanced Life Support), a service by HCA Hospice Care. "Without support from
these groups, as well as our bosses and colleagues, I doubt we'd be able to
carry on," said Mr Xie.

Xin Lin relies on several devices, on a subsidised loan from KKH, to stay alive.
A machine pumps pressurised air into her airways through a mask for most of the
day and at night. A feeding tube, which is changed weekly, delivers sustenance
through the nose. By her bedside are machines to help her "cough up" secretions
from her lungs and airways. An oximeter monitors her vital statistics.

As a simple cold can be potentially fatal, her caregivers wear surgical masks
and sanitise their hands before attending to her.

After the respiratory infection last National Day, Xin Lin's muscle strength
deteriorated and she could no longer swallow any food.

Despite knowing what lies ahead for Xin Lin, the Xies are not ready to discuss
end-of-life care with KKH's medical team. "A lot of people talk about quality of
life, but that is a term we've yet to figure out and understand," said Mr Xie.

"All I know is that Xin Lin is still smiling. The hospital scares her but she
smiles and lights up whenever she sees her older sister," said Mrs Xie, 32, an
advisory IT specialist.

"Someone asked me if I feel stressed (by her condition) but the truth is,
whenever I see my little one smile, that de-stresses me. We'll leave our sadness
to the end. If we're sad now, we cannot enjoy our time together."

Dr Tan Ee Shien from Genetics Service at KKH's Department of Paediatrics will
share about rare genetic diseases, their symptoms and management options.

Date: Feb 27, Saturday, 10am to 12.30pm.

Venue: The Gallery Auditorium, *SCAPE, Level 5, 2 Orchard Link

For more information and registration, visit http://www.rdss.org.sg/events or
https://www.clubrainbow.org/events

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Mr Xie Dingshan with his daughter, Xin Lin, who has Type 1 spinal
muscular atrophy. Photo:  Wee Teck Hian

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2016 MediaCorp Press Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              352 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                             Daily News (New York)

                             July 27, 2010 Tuesday
                              SPORTS FINAL EDITION

MOM'S QUEST FOR HOPE. MISSION TO FIND A CURE FOR SON'S RARE DISEASE

BYLINE: BY SAM LEVIN and LUKAS I. ALPERT DAILY NEWS WRITERS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 469 words


ALL HE NEEDS is a miracle - and his mom won't quit until she finds one.

Brooklyn toddler Jonah Weishaar has been diagnosed with an exceedingly rare
genetic disorder that prevents the body from processing certain sugars.

It's called Sanfilippo Syndrome, has no known treatment and usually kills before
age 20.

So Jonah's mom, Jill Wood, is on a crusade to find something that will stop the
inevitable progression of the illness.

"I have a limited amount of time to save my baby's life," she told the Daily
News. "The cure could be out there."

Wood, 37, has launched Jonah's Just Begun, a research charity. Its first goal is
to find enough sufferers so that a proper medical study can be done.

"This disease has not been fully documented. It has to be studied," she said. "I
have to do this. In the long run, I feel morally responsible for the next
generation."

Jonah - who lives in Park Slope with his mom and cameraman dad Jeremy Weishaar -
was diagnosed in May when his pediatrician noticed his head was larger than
normal.

He has few symptoms: slow speech development and fragile teeth that easily chip.
To the casual observer, he appears perfectly healthy.

But over time, as the unprocessed sugar collects in his body, Jonah's cells will
become more and more damaged, and his behavior will become erratic.

If the disorder follows the usual course, as he gets older, he will become
immobile, unresponsive and prone to seizures.

Those with Sanfilippo Syndrome usually die by their early 20s.

"I look at him and there's nothing wrong with him. I have to constantly remind
myself," Wood said. "I just can't believe it."

The disease affects only one in a million children. Jonah appears to be the only
child with it in the five boroughs, doctors say.

Both parents must carry the gene - and even then, there is only a one-in-four
chance of the child developing it. There is no screening for the gene.

The disorder is part of a family of similar ailments called MPS diseases, for
which some treatments have been developed.

There's been no luck with Sanfilippo, though.

"They have done very well with many other diseases," said Dr. Maryam Banikazemi,
an expert on pediatric genetics at New York-Presbyterian Hospital who has worked
on Jonah's case.

"There is hope that there may be a breakthrough."

If 10 people with the syndrome are found, study data can be turned over to a
pharmaceutical company for the development of a drug.

In the past, drug companies tended to avoid rare disorders, but federal
incentives for so-called "orphan drugs" means they're more willing to tackle
little-known diseases.

Wood said she has located five other children with Sanfilippo and is eager to
find more.

"My hope is to get the word out," Wood said. "At the very least, this is
something Jonah can contribute to the next generation."

lalpert@nydailynews.com

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Mom Jill Wood holds son, Jonah, 2, who has rare disease, Sanfilippo
Syndrome, which could be fatal by the time he turns 20. Photo by Debbie
Egan-Chin News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2010 Daily News, L.P.


                              353 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            Crain's Detroit Business

                                October 5, 2009

Study: Rescue rates, not complications, distinguish good hospitals

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 0033

LENGTH: 762 words


A University of Michigan Health System study debunks assumptions about the role
of complications in distinguishing good and bad hospitals.

The report in the Oct. 1 New England Journal of Medicine confirms that serious
complications are common after major surgery -- about one in six patients -- but
the study shows what drives hospital mortality is failure to rescue.

Low-mortality hospitals have medical teams with the ability to rescue patients
by recognizing and heading off potentially catastrophic complications such as
deep wound infections, pneumonia, kidney failure, blood clots and strokes.

In spite of similar patterns of complications, patients at high-mortality
hospitals are nearly twice as likely to die after developing a serious
post-surgical complication, according to the study.

It's a new view of what defines the safest hospitals for surgery.

The study author is John Birkmeyer, M.D., professor of surgery and chair of
surgical outcomes research at the University of Michigan Medical School.
Birkmeyer worked with UM surgery resident Amir Ghaferi, M.D., the paper's first
author, and Justin Dimick, M.D., M.P.H, assistant professor of surgery at UM
Medical School.

Funding for the study came from the National Cancer Institute, Agency for
Healthcare Research and Quality.

UM researchers to lead study of nephrotic syndrome

University of Michigan Health System researchers will lead a $10.25 million,
five-year effort called the Nephrotic Rare Disease Consortium to study nephrotic
syndrome, which encompasses a group of diseases that can cause kidney failure
and the need for dialysis.

The National Institutes of Health's Office of Rare Diseases and the National
Institute of Diabetes, Digestive and Kidney Disease awarded a $6.25 million
grant to UM, the NephCure Foundation committing $2 million and UM $2 million.

The project director is nephrologist Matthias Kretzler, M.D, professor of
internal medicine at the UM Medical School. Other UM researchers are Akinlolu
Ojo, M.D., Ph.D., professor in internal medicine, and Lawrence Holzman, M.D.,
professor of internal medicine.

Research briefs

* The U.S. Food and Drug Administration has given the green light for a clinical
trial of a new stem cell treatment for amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, popularly
known as Lou Gehrig's disease. University of Michigan neurologist Eva Feldman,
M.D., Ph.D., will be the overall principal investigator for the first human
clinical trial of a stem-cell treatment for the fatal neurodegenerative disease.

The FDA approved an investigational new drug application from Neuralstem Inc., a
Rockville, Md.-based biotech company, to test the safety of a treatment in which
patients will receive injections of the company's patented neural stem cells at
multiple sites along the spinal cord.

Grants

* Jesus (Jessie) Casida, Ph.D., RN, CCRN-CSC, APN-C, assistant professor at
Wayne State University College of Nursing, has won a competitive three-year,
$350,000 grant from the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation to conduct research on
sleep disruption, depression and impaired cognitive function that afflicts
patients with advanced heart failure. Casida is one of just 15 nurse educators
from around the country to receive the award this year. It is given to junior
faculty who show outstanding promise as future leaders in academic nursing.

* The Troy-based Kresge Foundation has awarded Hope Clinic in Ypsilanti a
$400,000 challenge grant to help it close out a $3 million capital campaign to
expand its building. In order to receive the grant, the clinic, which provides
free health and dental care to the uninsured, must raise $1 million by the end
of the year.

* Wayne State University announced an expansion of a research grant of nearly
$2.7 million, bringing the award to more than $6.1 million. The project, "Brain
Chemistry and Genetics in Pediatric OCD," funded by the National Institute of
Mental Health at the National Institutes of Health, is the first combined
imaging and genetics research study on obsessive-compulsive disorder.

David Rosenberg, M.D., the Miriam L. Hamburger Endowed Chair of Child Psychiatry
and professor of psychiatry at WSU, is the principal investigator.

* Researchers at the University of Michigan Comprehensive Cancer Center have
been awarded a National Institutes of Health grant worth $6.9 million over five
years to conduct research into endogenous retroviruses and their role in cancer.
The principal investigator is David Markowitz, M.D., professor of internal
medicine at the UM medical school.

Copyright 2009 Crain Communications Inc. All Rights Reserved.

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: db


                      Copyright 2009 Crain Communications
                              All Rights Reserved


                              354 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                Watford Observer

                          February 11, 2015 Wednesday

Bovingdon resident wishes to raise awareness of her life-altering condition in
time for Rare Disease Day

BYLINE: Katrina Turrill

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 467 words


A woman from Bovingdon who has been living with severe kidney pain for the past
14 years wants to raise awareness of the life-altering condition in time for
Rare Disease Day on Saturday, February 28.

Alison Banister, 54, who lives in Dinmore, was diagnosed with loin pain
haematuria syndrome, a combination of loin pain and haematuria, which is a
medical term for blood in the urine, after having her first attack of agonising
pain in her left loin in 2001.

Mrs Banister said: "It took five years to discover the cause of my pain - a
hyper-mobile kidney. This was surgically fixed in place, and although this
helped somewhat, I was left with loin pain haematuria syndrome - also known as
LPHS.

"The condition is said to be rare, with only 400 cases cited worldwide. Numbers
are low because the condition is relatively unknown amongst the medical
profession.

"Fortunately I had been healthy up to that point, working as a nurse and
midwife, prior to marrying and bringing up my child."

After Mrs Banister's first attack of agonising pain in her left loin in 2001,
the attacks got worse, lasting from two hours to two weeks.

She said: "I had gaps of days, weeks or months between episodes of pain. The
pain became more frequent and now I have severe pain every day."

On a day to day basis, Mrs Banister spends a huge amount of time trying to
control the pain.

"It increases in severity very quickly - from 0-10/10 in just a few seconds,"
she said.

"Hospital admissions were every two to eight weeks, however since starting new
medication a few years ago, I am able to manage my pain better at home."

Mrs Banister does suffer with side effects from the medication, from difficulty
reading to lack of appetite and poor energy levels.

She said: "Everything is a struggle and rest is essential. This condition
affects every aspect of life. I cannot work in my profession, but recently I
started voluntary work as a street pastor and training to be a La Leche League
Breast Feeding Counsellor."

Although there has been no research into the cause of LPHS, and the cause
remains unknown, Mrs Banister is fortunate to benefit from the specialists at
the Royal Free Hospital in London.

She added: "LPHS is not life-threatening, but is life-altering. I find that a
positive mind set is very helpful when dealing with this challenge.

"My mission is to help raise awareness amongst the community and the medical
profession. This will give a truer picture of case numbers and also improve
diagnosis times. Many people never get a diagnosis or are misdiagnosed as time
wasters or drug seekers."

Rare Disease Day takes place on the last day of February each year, and is a
worldwide campaign. Its main objective is to raise awareness amongst the general
public and decision-makers about rare diseases and their impact on patients'
lives.

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              355 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                             October 7, 2016 Friday

Tel Aviv University's Professor Illana Gozes receives top RARE gene award

LENGTH: 754  words

DATELINE: New York



 Washington: American Association for the Advancement of Science has issued the
following news release:



 Tel Aviv University's Prof. Illana Gozes was awarded the 2016 RARE Champion of
Hope -- Science International Prize by Global Genes, a leading global advocacy
non-profit organization for patients and families fighting rare and genetic
diseases.





 The ceremony took place at the 5th Annual Tribute to Champions of Hope
presented by PRA Health Sciences on September 23 and 24 at the Huntington Beach
Hyatt Resort and Spa in Aliso Viejo, CA. The annual blue carpet event honors and
celebrates rare disease advocates, scientists, patients, and supporters.



 Prof. Gozes is the incumbent of the Lily and Avraham Gildor Chair for the
Investigation of Growth Factors; Head of the Elton Laboratory for Molecular
Neuroendocrinology at TAU's Sackler Faculty of Medicine; and a member of TAU's
Adams Super Center for Brain Studies and Sagol School of Neuroscience.



 More than 350 individuals and organizations worldwide were nominated by members
of the Global Genes Board of Directors and Medical and Science Advisory Board
for their notable efforts in rare disease advocacy, science, collaborative
sciences, and medical care and treatment. Only a few of the nominees were
selected for the top honor.



 A leader in genetic research



 Prof. Gozes is a vanguard on the front of genetic research. She discovered the
ADNP gene that causes the ADNP syndrome (also known as the Helsmoortal-Van Der
AA syndrome), deregulates in Alzheimer's disease (AD) and in schizophrenia, and
mutates in autism. Prof. Gozes has also been instrumental in drawing attention
to the ways that ADNP binds to microtubules -- tubes within nerve cells that
maintain cell shape and serve as "train tracks" for movement of biological
material through the brain.



 "With her commitment to research and new therapies, Prof. Gozes continues to
help many undiagnosed patients receive the therapies and tests needed to be
happy, healthy, and diagnosed," according to Global Genes.



 "There is no one else more worthy of receiving this award than Prof. Gozes,"
said Angela Downing, Chair of the ADNP Kids Research Foundation, who presented
the award to Prof. Gozes. "She is a respected neuroscientist, a beloved
professor and a mentor to many. She has worked tirelessly in her career not only
for science but for humanity. Prof. Gozes delivers nothing but excellence in
terms of research. Her commitment to our children, who suffer from ADNP
disorders, is strong and we stand confident knowing she stands with us."



 Sandra Sermone, Founder and President of the ADNP Kids Research Foundation,
added: "I have known Prof. Gozes for the last two years, after my son was
diagnosed with an ADNP mutation. She is a leader in ADNP research and drug
development and works tirelessly to advance research and potential treatments
for our children with this heart-breaking disease. She is committed, caring and
compassionate. There is no one more deserving of an award associated with hope."




 Praising a community



 Global Genes is a leading global advocacy non-profit organization for patients
and families fighting rare and genetic diseases. The organization hopes to find
treatments and cures for the 7,000+ rare and genetic diseases that affect an
estimated 30 million Americans and over 350 million people worldwide through
building awareness, developing patient-focused educational tools, and funding
patient care programs and early investigative research.



 "I feel privileged to have helped this community," said Prof. Gozes. "I may
have been able to help only a few families, but then they discussed the
experience and passed on vital information to others in similar situations.
Together, as a community, they have a voice which calls for more funding to
support further critical research."



 Together with Coronis Neurosciences (on agreement with Ramot@Tel Aviv
University), Prof. Gozes is currently developing an ADNP-based drug for
cognitive impairment in schizophrenia. A small fragment of ADNP called
davunetide has shown promise in Phase IIa clinical trials, and Prof. Gozes is
harnessing it for further advanced trials on large cohorts of patients. The
exposure to the knowledgeable and compassionate community of Global Genes and
the honor of receiving the RARE Champion of Hope -- Science International Prize
will no doubt accelerate drug development.



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              356 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                             March 5, 2015 Thursday

Online Lennox-Gastaut syndrome (LGS) Research Survey Open for Caregivers

LENGTH: 176  words

DATELINE: Denver


UBM Marketing and Communications Services has issued the following Press
release:

Find A Cure Panel specializes in patient research for serious and rare diseases
and conditions, including Lennox-Gastaut syndrome (LGS). They currently have a
confidential and anonymous online survey for parents of children with
Lennox-Gastaut syndrome (LGS) who live in the United States.

This Lennox-Gastaut syndrome (LGS) research asks for the opinions and
experiences of those with Lennox-Gastaut syndrome (LGS) as to their condition
and treatment. Participants in this Lennox-Gastaut syndrome (LGS) research will
provide treatment providers with a stronger understanding of the challenges
facing those who Lennox-Gastaut syndrome (LGS).

This online survey takes about 20 minutes to complete.  No personal and
identifying information is provided to the researchers. If you complete the
survey, Find a Cure Panel will donate $100 to a non profit of your choice.

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              357 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                        May 23, 2016 Monday 6:30 AM EST

Abeona Therapeutics to Present at UBS 2016 Global Healthcare Conference

LENGTH: 256  words


May 23 -- Abeona Therapeutics Inc. (NASDAQ: ABEO), a clinical-stage
biopharmaceutical company focused on developing and delivering gene therapy and
plasma-based products for severe and life-threatening rare diseases, today
announced that President and CEO, Tim Miller, PhD, will be presenting for the
company at the UBS 2016 Global Healthcare Conference in New York City, NY on
Wednesday, May 25th at 11:30am ET. The presentation will be webcast live and can
be accessed through the following URL:
https://cc.talkpoint.com/ubsx001/052316a_ae/?entity=92_LUN46NN

The following are the specific details regarding Abeona Therapeutics
Presentation:

Event: UBS 2016 Global Healthcare Conference

Date: Wednesday, May 25th 2016

Time: 11:30 am ET

Location: New York City, NY

Room: Ballroom V, Uris

Webcast Link: https://cc.talkpoint.com/ubsx001/052316a_ae/?entity=92_LUN46NN

Abeona Therapeutics Inc announced last week that the first patient had been
dosed in its Phase 1/2 trial for ABO-102 (AAV-SGSH), a single treatment gene
therapy strategy for patients with Sanfilippo syndrome type A
(Mucopolysaccharidosis Type IIIA or MPS IIIA).

"Abeona is committed to building a leadership position in the development of
promising gene therapies for children with rare diseases," state Steven H.
Rouhandeh, Executive Chairman. "We believe our gene therapy technique,
delivering a single intravenous injection to treat the whole body as well as
CNS, represents a new approach to address the relentless progress of Sanfilippo
syndrome."

Source: Abeona Therapeutics

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2016 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              358 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                              European Union News

                             March 2, 2017 Thursday

Two families unite with North Wales paediatricians to raise awareness on Rare
Disease Day

LENGTH: 880 words

DATELINE: New York



 London: Board of Community Health Council, UK Government has issued the
following news release:



 Two families with children who suffer from extremely rare disorders have joined
forces with paediatricians from Betsi Cadwaladr University Health Board to raise
awareness on Rare Disease Day.





 Rare Disease Day 4A rare disease is any disorder that affects a small
percentage of the population. Although the disease may be rare, patients and
families share a common struggle.



 Mari Elin Lewis, from Llandwrog, near Caernarfon, suffers from a very rare
condition called Aniridia, which affects her eyesight, and is caused by an even
rarer condition called WAGR syndrome.



 Fewer than 300 people worldwide suffer from this condition and it is believed
Mari is the only one in Wales.



 When Mari was one-years-old she was diagnosed with Wilms tumour which meant she
had a year of chemotherapy and surgery to remove seven tumours.



 The four-year-old, who is registered as blind, has also had cataract surgery on
both eyes and further surgery to remove scar tissue.



 Her mother, Caryl, said: "We do constantly worry about Mari and the
possibilities of the tumours returning, the long term effects of chemo,
deteriorating vision and her coping with her limited vision and being able to do
what other children do. It is very much an emotional rollercoaster having a
child with such a rare condition.



 "We've had to learn about her condition as we've gone on and to research as
much as possible in order to help Mari and get the assistance she needs.



 "The staff at Ysbyty Gwynedd's paediatrics team have helped us so much along
the way. Since her diagnosis we have had a genetics councillor there who has
been very helpful and gone through everything with us which has made such a big
difference."



 Three-year-old Harry Thorogood, from Kinmel Bay, suffers with a rare and
severely disabling type of epilepsy called Dravet Syndrome which means he
suffers between ten to fifteen seizures a day.



 Rare Disease Day 6His symptoms began to show when he was six months old after
he suffered a severe seizure, lasting almost an hour.



 His mother, Emma, said her son's condition, which only affects 1 in 19,000
people, was diagnosed by the paediatrics team at Glan Clwyd Hospital after
numerous tests over a ten month period.



 She said: "His seizures are very severe, my biggest fear is that he could drop
down and cause himself a serious injury when he is outside playing, it can
happen at any time and up to 15 times a day, even in his sleep.



 "We also have the worry of not knowing what damage these seizures are causing
him, we are still learning about the disease but we know he will suffer
significant development delays.



 "The condition also brings a high chance Harry could suffer from Sudden
Unexpected Death in Epilepsy (SUDEP) which is a constant worry for us.



 "However, what has helped us tremendously is the huge support from the staff at
the paediatric department and children's ward at Glan Clwyd Hospital and also
the Conwy Child Development



 Centre, we've had all the right tests and most importantly they have listened
to us.



 "It took a bit of time to get Harry on the right medication and Dr Valerie
Klimach helped us with this along the way, we cannot thank her enough."



 Consultant paediatrician, Dr Klimach, who is part of the paediatric team at
Glan Clwyd Hospital, said it is important that early diagnosis is made and also
that the child's and family's needs are met.



 She said: "In Betsi Cadwaladr Health Board (BCUHB) we have community and acute
based paediatricians who undertake the medical care of children who have rare
and complex disorders.



 "This care continues throughout childhood and into the transition to adult
services or until their death for children with rare severely life limiting
conditions. For preschool children the child development teams provide
coordinated care. These teams comprise a number of health professionals
including nursing, medical, therapy.



 "In Conwy we are lucky enough to have a Child Development Centre which is
jointly run by Health, Education and Social Services and is therefore well
placed to provide comprehensive and coordinated care with carefully thought
through transition to school for children receiving its services."



 Rare Disease Day 1Dr Shakir Saeed, Consultant Paediatrician at Ysbyty Gwynedd,
says more research into rare conditions is required to help families and
professionals.



 He said: "Rare diseases are associated with multiple other problems such as a
feeding issues, growth failure and usually multiple systems in the body are
affected.



 "The majority of these children will have delayed development and require input
from multi professionals on a regular basis.



 "Children who are affected and their families require lots of support from
professionals. We routinely signpost parents and families to specific rare
condition support group's websites.



 "I fully believe more research in to rare conditions is required to help the
families and professionals."



 Rare Disease Day is held on the last day of February every year to raise
awareness of rare diseases.





 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com



LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              359 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                        May 15, 2015 Friday 6:30 AM EST

Cortendo: Cortendo Adds Two Late-Stage Assets to Its Rare Endocrine Disease
Franchise, Announces Related $33.2 Million Financing

LENGTH: 706  words


May 15 -- Cortendo AB (publ) [ticker: CORT on NOTC-A], a biopharmaceutical
company focused on rare endocrine disorders and other rare diseases, today
announced that it has entered into an agreement to acquire Aspireo
Pharmaceuticals' Somatoprim (DG3173), an investigational compound being studied
for the treatment of acromegaly. Cortendo also recently announced entering into
an exclusive licensing agreement for commercialization rights to Antisense
Therapeutics' ATL1103 for endocrinology applications. Additionally, Cortendo
today announced that it has entered into an agreement to raise approximately
$33.2 million in a new private placement.

Acquisition of Aspireo Pharmaceuticals' DG3173 for Acromegaly and Potential
Additional Applications

Cortendo has entered into an agreement to acquire Aspireo Pharmaceuticals'
DG3173, a next-generation, somatostatin analog (SSA) with a unique receptor
affinity profile, being investigated for the treatment of acromegaly, with
potential additional applications in Cushing's Syndrome and neuroendocrine
tumors.

Under the terms of the acquisition agreement, Cortendo will provide Aspireo
Pharmaceuticals approximately $30 million in Cortendo equity for Somatoprim
(DG3173). The completion of the acquisition of Somatoprim (DG3173) is subject
to, among other things, shareholder approval at the Annual General Meeting
(AGM), which is scheduled to be held on or about June 24, 2015. This acquisition
is expected to be completed shortly after the AGM.

In addition, as part of Cortendo's related round of financing, TVM Capital,
Aspireo's primary shareholder, will purchase $4.25 million of Cortendo shares.

"The addition of two novel, late-stage investigational compounds for the
treatment of rare endocrine disorders, DG3173 and ATL1103, coupled with our
existing Phase 3 asset for endogenous Cushing's Syndrome, COR-003, establishes
the cornerstone of Cortendo's rare endocrine disease franchise and demonstrates
our commitment to becoming a leader in providing innovative therapeutic options
to patients with rare diseases," said Matthew Pauls, president and chief
executive officer of Cortendo. "There are significant unmet needs in the
diagnosis and treatment of both endogenous Cushing's Syndrome and acromegaly,
and we are passionate about the opportunity to simultaneously advance
development of COR-003, DG3173 and ATL1103 and commence pre-commercialization
activities, and to ultimately provide these patients and the physicians who
treat them with novel therapeutic options," Pauls added.

Locust Walk and Pelican Advisors acted as Cortendo's and Aspireo
Pharmaceuticals' transaction advisors, respectively.

Financing

Cortendo has entered into an agreement to raise approximately $33.2 million in a
new private placement, the proceeds of which will be used for continued
development of COR-003 along with the planned development of the two new
programs. The subscription price is $1.322 per share and up to 25,128,559 new
shares will be issued to the investors.

New institutional investors in this round of financing include Longwood Capital,
TVM Capital and Granite Point Capital. Additionally, several existing investors,
including RA Capital, New Enterprise Associates, Broadfin Capital and HealthCap,
have also extended their investments in Cortendo through this round of
financing.

Notably, in addition to investing in Cortendo as part of the acquisition of
Aspireo Pharmaceuticals' DG3173, TVM Capital will invest an additional $4.25
million in the announced private placement.

The financing is subject to shareholder approval of the AGM, which is scheduled
to be held on or about June 24, 2015, and is subject to certain other
conditions, including expected gross proceeds of at least $20 million and the
non-occurrence of any material adverse effects (as defined in the agreement with
the investors) prior to completion.

"We appreciate the support of all of our investors and their confidence in
Cortendo's ability to develop and commercialize novel therapeutics for the
treatment of rare endocrine disorders and other rare diseases," said Matthew
Pauls, president and chief executive officer of Cortendo.

Locust Walk served as a consultant to Cortendo for this transaction.

Source: Cortendo

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2015 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              360 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                              West Carleton Review

                             October 3, 2016 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Dravet walk raises more than $50K

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 580  words


More than $50,000 raised from the fifth annual Dravet Walk for the Kids in
Constance Bay will help a team of researchers at the Children's Hospital of
Eastern Ontario.

Mandy McKnight, organizer of the grassroots fundraising event and mother of
Liam, heard about a potential research project at CHEO last year and reached out
to the team. Liam, 8, has Dravet syndrome, a rare form of epilepsy that causes
dozens of seizures per day.

"We have an amazing opportunity here with the walk and decided we would like to
direct the proceeds, if possible, to local research," said McKnight.

"CHEO is an amazing hospital, and when you have a child with a life-threatening
condition, the hospital and staff really becomes a huge part of your family
life. We really wanted to find a way to give back to the local community, which
has given us so much over the past eight years. I also believe that gives local
researchers an amazing opportunity to get noticed on the world stage in respect
to Dravet syndrome research."

Dr. David Dyment, a clinician and investigator at CHEO who studies rare
diseases, is leading the CHEO research team, which is working on mice with
Dravet syndrome to find best treatments that may work in humans.

"A cure would be wonderful," he said. "But finding treatments to deal with
seizures will give people with Dravet syndrome a better quality of life."

In Ottawa there are less than 20 youths diagnosed with Dravet syndrome, he said.
Having a connection to the families keeps the researchers accountable and
focused.

"It's really important," he said. "They're driving everything for the research.
We're just doing our best to come up with answers."

DRAVET WALK

This year's Dravet Walk for the Kids, held on Oct. 1, saw 19 teams register and
373 people participate. Liam's Army - the group that started it all five years
ago - had a record 171 members and raised more than $13,000 towards the total.

Liam's dad Dave said the walk just gets better every year and the family is
grateful for the community's support.

Some of those who couldn't attend the event in person also held their own
events, said Mandy.

"My brother hosted a walk in Torbay, Newfoundland, that saw 45 people attend,"
she said. "This has been our most successful year yet for attendance."

The current tally has funds raised sitting at more than $50,000, and donations
are still coming in, she added.

In five years, the local West Carleton walk has raised almost $250,000.

"Dravet syndrome is a rare disease (and) we do not get any funding whatsoever
from any level of government," said Mandy. "All monies raised through events
like the walk are all grassroots-driven by families and friends of children who
are afflicted by this terrible disease."

The Dravet Walk for the Kids, which features a three-kilometre family walk in
Constance Bay, is the only event of its type in Ottawa and draws participants
from across the city and province.

"It is an absolute honour to plan this event for our Dravet kids and their
families every year and we are often emotional and speechless every year with
the support we get from everyone especially the local community," said Mandy.

"We are so lucky to live in an amazing supportive community who supports our
efforts in a quest for a cure, better treatment options and most importantly to
raise awareness for catastrophic epilepsies like Dravet syndrome. Dave and I
would like to say a huge thank you to everyone for their support and friendship.
We could not do it without you."

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              361 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                      December 23, 2016 Friday 6:30 AM EST

Strongbridge Biopharma Provides Corporate, Financial Update

LENGTH: 2293  words


Dec. 23 -- Strongbridge Biopharma plc, (Nasdaq:SBBP), a global commercial-stage
biopharmaceutical company focused on the development and commercialization of
therapies for rare diseases with significant unmet needs, today announced a
corporate and financial update.

"Throughout the second half of 2016, Strongbridge has been focused on building
value in three key areas: enhancing the clinical development program and the
probability of regulatory success for COR-003, pursuing a commercial-stage rare
disease therapy resulting in the acquisition of the U.S. rights to KEVEYIS
(dichlorphenamide), and strengthening the financial condition of the Company,"
said Matthew Pauls, president and chief executive officer of Strongbridge.
"Executing on these initiatives strengthens our presence in rare diseases and
sets the stage for a number of value-creating events in 2017, including
commercial sales of KEVEYIS and completing enrollment in the SONICS study,"
Pauls added.

Expands Rare Disease Portfolio through Acquisition of U.S. Rights to KEVEYIS,
the First and Only FDA-Approved Treatment for Hyperkalemic, Hypokalemic, and
Related Variants of Primary Periodic Paralysis

Earlier today, Strongbridge announced in a separate press release that the
Company has acquired the U.S. rights to KEVEYIS, the first and only U.S. Food
and Drug Administration (FDA)-approved product to treat hyperkalemic,
hypokalemic, and related variants of Primary Periodic Paralysis, which is a
group of rare hereditary disorders that causes potentially severe episodes of
muscle weakness and/or paralysis. KEVEYIS is Strongbridge's first commercial
product, and expands the Company's rare disease franchises to include both
neuromuscular and endocrine diseases.

Provides Update on Timelines and Strengthens COR-003 Clinical Development
Program with Additional Phase 3 Study

The global Phase 3 SONICS clinical trial evaluating COR-003 (levoketoconazole)
for the treatment of endogenous Cushing's syndrome is more than two-thirds
enrolled. Based upon an analysis of recent enrollment trends, Strongbridge
anticipates that the study will be fully enrolled in Q2 2017, with top-line data
for the primary efficacy analysis available in Q1 2018.

In October 2016, at the fourth semi-annual Data and Safety Monitoring Board
(DSMB) review of the SONICS data, the DSMB recommended that the SONICS study
continue as planned.

In addition, based upon Strongbridge's ongoing dialog with the FDA and
observation of the current regulatory landscape, the Company plans to initiate
LOGICS, a second global Phase 3 study of COR-003 for the treatment of endogenous
Cushing's syndrome. The LOGICS study will supplement the long-term efficacy and
safety data from the ongoing SONICS study in a randomized, double-blind,
placebo-controlled study that will enroll approximately 35 patients, of which
approximately two-thirds will have completed the SONICS study. LOGICS enrollment
is anticipated to begin mid-year 2017 and top-line data are expected in Q3 2018.
Additional detail regarding the LOGICS study will be provided upon initiation.

"While recruitment in SONICS has been slower than anticipated, we have
implemented several initiatives including additional site activations, new
recruitment tactics, and protocol changes to improve enrollment rates," said
Fredric Cohen, M.D., chief medical officer of Strongbridge. "We believe that
SONICS will provide scientifically-rigorous and clinically-relevant evidence
characterizing the efficacy and safety of COR-003.  The addition of LOGICS will
provide an opportunity to enhance the body of evidence for COR-003 by generating
data in a well-controlled study," Cohen added.

Strongbridge Selects Proprietary Technology for COR-005 Long-Acting Release
Formulation

COR-005 (veldoreotide) is a novel, investigational somatostatin analogue (SSA)
with proven and differentiated pharmacology in pre-clinical models and patients
with acromegaly. COR-005 may provide the acromegaly community with a new
treatment option offering a unique clinical profile and delivery system. COR-005
has been granted orphan drug designation by the FDA and the European Medicines
Agency (EMA). Strongbridge has completed the screening of potential long-acting
release (LAR) technologies for COR-005, and selected a proprietary formulation
based upon PLGA microspheres. PLGA is a well-known polymer, which has been
widely applied in LAR formulations due to its biocompatibility,
biodegradability, and favorable release kinetics.

Announces $35 Million in Equity Financing; Finalizing $40 Million Credit
Facility of which $20 Million to be Borrowed Initially, Extending Cash Runway at
Least Through 2018

Strongbridge announced today in a separate press release that the Company has
entered into a definitive securities purchase agreement for a  $35 million
equity financing led by CAM Capital and Vivo Capital, with additional
participation from Broadfin Capital, Boxer Capital of the Tavistock Group and
HealthCap, as well as several new and existing institutional and individual
investors. In addition to this equity financing, the Company is in the process
of finalizing credit documentation for a $40 million credit facility, which the
Company anticipates will close on or about December 28, 2016, and of which $20
million would be borrowed initially. Under the credit facility, the Company
anticipates having access to two additional tranches of $10 million each, which
would be available to the Company subject to the achievement of certain
specified milestones. It is anticipated that the credit facility would mature
after 48 months, provide interest-only payments initially for the first 18
months of the loan followed by an amortization period of 30 months, provide for
a final payment fee equal to 8% of the amount borrowed, and bear interest at a
rate equal to the sum of 8.22% plus the greater of 0.53% or the 30-day US LIBOR
rate. It is also anticipated that the credit facility will provide that if the
Company satisfies certain milestones and borrows the final $10 million tranche,
the interest-only period would be extended by an additional six months and the
amortization period would be 24 months. Under the credit facility, the Company
would grant a security interest in substantially all of its existing and
after-acquired assets, including intellectual property. The credit facility
would contain facility and prepayment fees, and customary affirmative and
negative covenants, and events of default.

The Company's pro forma cash and cash equivalents balance as of September 30,
2016 is $77.1 million, inclusive of estimated net proceeds from the equity
financing and the initial $20 million borrowing under the credit facility. The
Company believes it has sufficient financial resources, excluding any additional
borrowings under the credit facility, to fund planned operations at least
through 2018.

Reports Financial Results

Second Quarter 2016 Results

For the three months ended June 30, 2016, net loss attributable to ordinary
shareholders was $12.8 million, or $0.61 per basic and diluted share, compared
to $17.1 million, or $1.19 per basic and diluted share, for the same period in
the prior year.

Research and development expenses were $4.6 million for the three months ended
June 30, 2016, compared to $7.7 million for the same period in the prior year.
Research and development expenses for the three months ended June 30, 2015
included $3.9 million of the $5.0 million in aggregate cash paid to Antisense
Therapeutics upon entering into a license agreement in May 2015, with the
remaining $1.1 million of cash paid recorded as the initial carrying value of
our investment in the equity of Antisense Therapeutics. Research and development
expenses for the three months ended June 30, 2016 included $1.8 million of
increased expenses related to the global Phase 3 SONICS clinical trial and
supporting development activities for COR003, formulation development activities
for COR-005, and compensation and related personnel costs of increased employee
count. These expenses were partially offset by a $1.0 million decrease in
non-cash stock-based compensation costs resulting from the departure of certain
research and development personnel.

General and administrative expenses were $4.0 million for the three months ended
June 30, 2016, compared to $9.5 million for the same period in the prior year.
General and administrative expenses for the three months ended June 30, 2015
included $3.4 million of transaction fees and expenses related to the
acquisition of COR-005 from Aspireo Pharmaceuticals, the license of COR-004 from
Antisense Therapeutics, and other business development activities. General and
administrative expenses for the three months ended June 30, 2015 also included
$1.5 million of legal and accounting fees related to the indirect activities
necessary to prepare the Company's financial records for the U.S. initial public
offering, which was completed in October 2015. General and administrative
expenses for the three months ended June 30, 2016 included a $0.6 million
decrease in non-cash stock based compensation costs due to liability-classified
treatment of certain stock option awards in 2015.

As a result of the termination of the license agreement between BioPancreate and
Cornell Center for Technology Enterprise and Commercialization (CCTEC), we
recorded an impairment charge related to the in-process research and development
of $5.2 million for the three months ended June 30, 2016.

Third Quarter 2016 Results

For the three months ended September 30, 2016, net loss attributable to ordinary
shareholders was $7.6 million, or $0.36 per basic and diluted share, compared to
$9.7 million, or $0.51 per basic and diluted share, for the same period in the
prior year.

Research and development expenses were $4.5 million for the three months ended
September 30, 2016, compared to $4.1 million for the same period in the prior
year. The increase was primarily attributable to expenses related to the global
Phase 3 SONICS clinical trial and supporting development activities for COR003,
and compensation and related personnel costs of increased employee count. These
expenses were partially offset by a decrease in development spending for the
former COR-004 project.

General and administrative expenses were $3.1 million for the three months ended
September 30, 2016, compared to $5.5 million for the same period in the prior
year.  General and administrative expenses for the three months ended September
30, 2015 included $1.7 million of legal and accounting fees related to the
indirect activities necessary to prepare the Company's financial records for the
U.S. initial public offering, which was completed in October 2015. The remaining
net decrease was primarily due to lower legal fees in support of general
corporate matters, and lower employee recruiting fees and consulting fees for
general business efforts. Partially offsetting these costs were higher cash
compensation and non-cash stock based compensation costs due to increased
employee count.

For the nine months ended September 30, 2016, net loss attributable to ordinary
shareholders was $32.7 million, or $1.54 per basic and diluted share, compared
to $33.2 million, or $2.18 per basic and diluted share, for the same period in
the prior year.

Research and development expenses were $15.9 million for the nine months ended
September 30, 2016, compared to $14.3 million for the same period in the prior
year. Research and development expenses for the nine months ended September 30,
2015 included $3.9 million of the $5.0 million in aggregate cash paid to
Antisense Therapeutics upon entering into a license agreement in May 2015, with
the remaining $1.1 million of cash paid recorded as the initial carrying value
of our investment in the equity of Antisense Therapeutics. The remaining net
increase was primarily attributable to expenses related to the global Phase 3
SONICS clinical trial and supporting development activities for COR003,
development spending for the former COR-004 project, formulation development
activities for COR-005, and compensation and related personnel costs on
increased employee count. These expenses were partially offset by a decrease in
non-cash stock-based compensation costs due to the departure of certain research
and development employees.

General and administrative expenses were $11.3 million for the nine months ended
September 30, 2016, compared to $18.2 million for the same period in the prior
year. General and administrative expenses for the nine months ended September
30, 2015 included $3.7 million of legal and accounting fees related to the
indirect activities necessary to prepare the Company's financial records for the
U.S. initial public offering, which was completed in October 2015. General and
administrative expenses for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 also
included $3.6 million of transaction fees and expenses related to the
acquisition of COR-005 from Aspireo Pharmaceuticals, the license of COR-004 from
Antisense Therapeutics, and other business development activities. The remaining
net increase was primarily due to higher cash compensation and non-cash stock
based compensation costs due to increased employee count, partially offset by
decreased legal fees in support of general corporate matters, lower employee
recruiting fees and consulting fees for general business efforts.

As a result of the termination of the license agreement between BioPancreate and
Cornell Center for Technology Enterprise and Commercialization (CCTEC), we
recorded an impairment charge related to the In-process research and development
of $5.2 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2016.

Source: Strongbridge Biopharma

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2016 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              362 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                              birminghammail.co.uk

                     September 6, 2016 Tuesday 3:18 PM GMT

Poignant pictures showcase how these children are battling of the world's rarest
diseases;
Youngsters are being treated at Birmingham Children's Hospital

BYLINE: By Anuji Varma

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 579 words


These are the brave children being treated at a Birmingham hospital who are
suffering from some of the most rare diseases in the world.

And now the youngsters, who are all being treated at Birmingham Children's
Hospital, have been immortalised in a photo exhibition in the city centre in a
bid to raise money for a centre where they will all receive vital treatment.

Amongst them is Matab Jumaa, from Hodge Hill.

Only twenty people in the world have this disease and Matilda is one of them

The 11-year-old suffers from Gaucher's Disease, which affects one in 100,000
people.

She was finally diagnosed with the condition last year, after an nine-year
battle by her mum Hadia Abdalla, who knew something wasn't quite right with her
youngest child.

She noticed she was tired all the time, and had no energy.

Matab was also bullied at school because she was exceptionally shorter than her
peers, and had an over-large tummy.

But each time Hadia took her to the doctors she was told there was nothing wrong
with the bright youngster.

It was when Matab suffered heavy bleeding after falling over and that she found
random bruises appearing on her body, that medics took notice.

She was referred to the hospital, which is raising funds for a rare diseases
centre, and underwent a bone marrow test.

Finally in March last year she was told she had Gaucher's Disease.

It means that the enzyme in her body which breaks down fatty substances wasn't
working properly, causing a build up in her organs. She's now on medication and
has even grown a little since.

Transplant boy dreams of becoming a tennis star after winning gold

Matab said: "Before I was diagnosed children would laugh at me because I was
small for my age and my tummy was over large. I didn't want to cry in front of
them as it made me look weak. I used to just stand up straight and try to look
after myself because I felt really sad when they used to say stuff to me.

"I've been taking my medication so I hope I'll grow taller in the future. They
never used to say anything to me about my pot belly but it was always about my
height."

Full-time mum-of-three Hadia, 37, added: "I knew something wasn't right with
her, but the doctors kept sending me home, telling me she was normal.

"But I could tell she wasn't like my other two children. She was really tired
all the time, and had no energy. She had an larger stomach and would cry all the
time. She wasn't a happy child."

Matab explained: "My mum tries not to show that she's sad, but I can actually
see that she's really scared inside.

"Sometimes I get stress nightmares because I'm worrying about my family. I now
write poems to cheer myself up."

Matab, who is only one of two patients being treated for Type I of the genetic
disease at the hospital out of 89,000 patients, joined other rare disease
sufferers to promote the Stars Of Steelhouse Lane exhibition being held in
Victoria Square.

Other children included Matilda Hatton, from Walsall, who is one of an estimated
20 people to have Sensenbrenner Syndrome, siblings Noah and Ruby Harvey, from
West Bromwich, who both have Glutaric Aciduria Type 1, and Skye Gardner, from
Wednesbury who has Williams Syndrome.

The appeal needs to raise £3.65 million and will lead to a Rare Diseases Centre
based at the hospital.

It will bring a team of experts from all the specialities at the hospital under
one roof and increase research into the many different conditions.

*To donate see www.bch.org.uk/stars or text RARE to 70020 to donate £3.

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBEM


                         Copyright 2016 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved


                              363 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                             The Nation (Thailand)

                              May 19, 2009 Tuesday

Siriraj doctors save twins from rare disease

BYLINE: The Nation

LENGTH: 386 words


This is the first such case in Thailand and Southeast Asia, said Prof Teerawat
Kulthanan, dean of Faculty of Medicine Siriraj Hospital, Mahidol University.

He said the team, led by Dr Tuangsit Wattakanara, had detected abnormalities in
the foetus carried by 41-year-old Yanee Phobuathong, who went to the hospital
for prenatal care a month into her pregnancy.

Through ultrasound, the team found that the babies were suffering from the
twin-to-twin transfusion syndrome, caused by connecting blood vessels in their
shared placenta. This results in one baby getting more blood than the other,
which may result in the recipient twin being overloaded with fluid and killing
it from heart failure, while the other twin may die from not having enough
blood.

After following the development of the foetuses over 16 weeks, the surgical team
decided to conduct laser surgery and cut off the connection of blood vessels.

Tuangsit said the boys were delivered when they were 35 weeks old, and are now
healthy two-month-olds called Krittanat and Nattakritta. At delivery, they
weighed 2,540 grams and 2,180g respectively.

Division of Maternal Foetal Medicine Unit's chief, Dr Wittaya Thithaphan, said
twin-to-twin transfusion syndrome generally occurred in six out of every 10,000
pregnant women and treatment procedures usually depended on the severity of the
situation.

In the past doctors advised pregnant woman to undergo surgical procedures to
alleviate the symptoms until delivery, but now the blood-vessel connection can
be severed through laser surgery.

Yanee said she was very worried when doctors first said her twins were suffering
from a rare disease.

"Most people think that having twin boys is good luck, but I was really stressed
out. I had never heard about this disease before, and after an Internet search I
discovered that it was very rare and too expensive to treat," she said. "I had
no choice but to turn to Siriraj Hospital and would like to thank the doctors
who saved my and my children's lives."

Teerawat said that under normal circumstances this procedure would cost Bt1
million, but since this was the first such case not just in Thailand but the
whole of Southeast Asia the hospital was happy to do it for free. He added that
this would apply to other pregnant women suffering from this or other rare
syndromes.

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2009 Nation Multimedia Group
                              All Rights Reserved


                              364 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                 Irish Examiner

                            February 26, 2016 Friday

'Don't punish me for getting married' woman with incurable disease pleads with
politicians

SECTION: IRELAND

LENGTH: 686 words


Amy Foley, 28, from Midleton, Co Cork, has Ehlers Danlos Syndrome, a genetic,
incurable connective tissue disease that affects the joints, muscles, bones,
blood vessels, and vital organs.

She is on 26-28 medications a day and was recently devastated when her doctors
told her it was no longer safe for her to become pregnant.

One thing that has kept me fighting is my determination and my strong maternal
desire to become a mother.

My fiance and I have been devastated recently because it is no longer safe for
me to become pregnant for so many medical reasons. We are grieving the loss of
sharing that experience together as two people who want to be parents so very
much,  Amy said.

The couple were considering adoption  something we had always planned to do
after we had a child of our own  but to be considered  worthy  of being adoptive
parents, they need to marry and have a home that they could share with a child.

While her fiancé works full time, Amy, who graduated with a first class honours
diploma in Social Science, is finding it extremely difficult to attain permanent
part-time work because of the demands of managing her conditions, which also
include Postural Tachycardia Orthostatic Syndrome   an abnormal increase in
heart beat when changing position that can cause a significant drop in blood
pressure   and Mast Cell Activation Disorder, an immunological condition that
can lead to anaphylaxis, and has done so in Amy s case, requiring her to carry
an EpiPen.

Amy travels to London every couple of months for assessment since she was
formally diagnosed in 2013 and although she has campaigned publicly for
financial assistance, she has to rely heavily upon fundraising within her own
community.

Now the odds are also stacked against her chances of ever adopting a child
because she says she runs the risk of losing her disability allowance and her
medical card if she moves out of home and in with her fiancé.

My fiancé and I do not live together as I have not been working full time to
enable us to move out of our parents  homes. I have been researching our options
and I have discovered that if I move in with my fiancé or get married, that I
potentially lose my disability allowance, which is means-tested, and potentially
my medical card as he works full time,  Amy said.

She would be lost without her benefits, particularly her medical card, given the
frequency of hospital visits here in Cork since her diagnosis, and also in light
of the high daily consumption of medication.

What I want to ask politicians is  what does a woman in my position do when they
want to move forward in life with their partner of nine years? .

Do we, as a committed couple, have to spend our futures living separately and
never having the opportunity to be parents?

Will I be trapped not only by my conditions but also by the welfare system?  Amy
said.

While pregnancy is a high-risk strategy for Amy to pursue, she feels forced into
reconsidering this option because of her fear of losing the entitlements she
considers invaluable should she embark on the adoption route.

The complications that I potentially face while preparing to fall pregnant, as
well as during pregnancy, could potentially undo all the intervention I have
received in the UK,  she said.

Amy is appealing to whoever becomes social protection minister in the new
administration to ensure people like her are not left  between a rock and a hard
place .

I like to think I am a naturally optimistic person but right now I am being
pushed so hard against the wall. All I really want is a fair chance to live life
as normally as possible without the threat of losing state benefits that are a
lifeline in my case,  she said.

Amy s plea comes as experts in rare diseases prepare to gather in Dublin Castle
next Monday morning, February 29, for a major conference to mark International
Rare Disease Day.

Attendees will be given an update on progress of the National Rare Disease Plan
for Ireland 2014-2018 and progress on the clinical programme for rare diseases.

An estimated 300,000-plus children and adults in Ireland are impacted by c6,000
rare diseases.

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 Landmark Digital Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              365 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                       July 5, 2017 Wednesday 6:30 AM EST

FDA Grants SOBI003 Orphan Drug Designation for the Treatment of MPS IIIA

LENGTH: 605  words


July 5 -- Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB (publ) (Sobi) has been granted Orphan Drug
Designation (ODD) by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for the
company's development candidate SOBI003, a chemically modified human recombinant
sulfamidase for the treatment of mucopolysaccharidosis type IIIA (MPS IIIA),
also known as Sanfilippo syndrome type A, a rare metabolic disorder.

"We are very pleased with the Orphan Drug Designation from the FDA for SOBI003.
MPS IIIA is a severe and debilitating disease, and this development program is
an important part of our mission of being pioneers in rare diseases. We are
currently in the late pre-clinical phase and expect to initiate the first
clinical trial with SOBI003 in 2018," said Milan Zdravkovic, Chief Medical
Officer and Head of Research and Development at Sobi.

Onset of Mucopolysaccharidosis type IIIA is in early childhood, and the disease
is characterised by severe and progressive developmental delay, motor
retardation and eventually dementia. One in 100,000 children are born with the
inherited condition and very few patients survive into adulthood. There is
presently no treatment for MPS IIIA. SOBI003 was granted orphan designation by
the European Commission for MPS IIIA in October 2016.

About Orphan Drug Designation

The Orphan Drug Designation programme provides orphan status to drugs and
biologics which are defined as those intended for the safe and effective
treatment, diagnosis or prevention of rare diseases/disorders that affect fewer
than 200,000 people in the U.S., or that affect more than 200,000 persons but
are not expected to recover the costs of developing and marketing a treatment
drug. The granting of an orphan designation request does not alter the standard
regulatory requirements and process for obtaining marketing approval. Orphan
designation qualifies the sponsor of the drug for various development incentives
of the Orphan Drug Act, such as a 50 per cent tax credit on the cost of clinical
trials undertaken in the U.S. and a seven-year period of marketing exclusivity
following market approval.[1]

About mucopolysaccharidosis type IIIA (Sanfilippo A syndrome)

MPS IIIA or Sanfilippo A syndrome is a progressive, life-threatening and rare
inherited metabolic disorder affecting children already from a young age. MPS
IIIA belongs to a group of diseases called Lysosomal Storage Disorders (LSDs).
In MPS IIIA, the body is unable to break down long chains of sugar molecules
called heparan sulfate, resulting in the accumulation of heparan sulfate in
lysosomes. MPS IIIA mainly affects the central nervous system where it causes
severe progressive degeneration.[2]

Approximately 1,000-2,000 persons are estimated to live with MPS IIIA in the
E.U. and U.S. The disease is usually identified at around four years of age and
the life-span of an affected child does not usually extend beyond the third
decade of life. There is no treatment for MPS IIIA to date.

About SOBI003

SOBI003 is a chemically modified variant of a recombinant human sulfamidase
product candidate, using Sobi's proprietary glycan modification technology,
intended as an enzyme replacement therapy to reduce heparan sulfate storage
materials in affected cells. SOBI003 is taken up by cells and transported into
the lysosomal compartment where heparan sulfate is degraded. The modification of
the molecule results in an extended half-life.

Footnotes:

[1] FDA: Developing Products for Rare Diseases & Conditions.
https://www.fda.gov/ForIndustry/DevelopingProductsforRareDiseasesConditions/defa
ult.htm

[2] Valstar et al. Ann Neurol. 2010;68(6):876-87

Source: Swedish Orphan Biovitrum

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2017 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              366 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                           September 3, 2016 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

News Lead heady in here please THE WONDER KIDS!;
THEY'RE ALL SUFFERING FROM SOME OF THE WORLD'S RAREST DISEASES... AND LEADING
CAMPAIGN FOR A NEW £3.6M CENTRE TO BE BUILT IN BRUM

BYLINE: an uji varma

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4,5

LENGTH: 574 words


THESE are the brave children being treated for some of the rarest diseases in
the world at a Birmingham hospital.

And now the courageous youngsters are starring in a new photo exhibition in the
city centre in a bid to raise money for a Rare Diseases Centre at Birmingham
Children's Hospital, where they will all receive vital treatment.

Amongst them is Matab Jumaa, from Hodge Hill.

The 11-year-old suffers from Gaucher's Disease, which affects one in 100,000
people.

She was finally diagnosed with the condition last year after a nine-year battle
by her mum Hadia Abdalla, who knew something wasn't right with her youngest
child.

She noticed she was tired all the time and had no energy.

Matab was also bullied at school because she was much shorter than her peers and
had an over-large tummy.

But each time Hadia took her to the doctors she was told there was nothing wrong
with the bright youngster.

It was only when Matab suffered heavy bleeding after falling over and her mother
noticed random bruises appearing on her body that medics finally took notice.

She was referred to the hospital, which is raising funds for a rare diseases
centre, and underwent a bone marrow test.

Finally, in March last year she was told she had Gaucher's Disease.

It means that the enzyme in her body which breaks down fatty substances wasn't
working properly, causing a build-up in her organs. She's now on medication and
has even grown a little since.

Matab said: "Before I was diagnosed children would laugh at me because I was
small for my age and my tummy was over-large. I didn't want to cry in front of
them as it made me look weak.

"I used to just stand up straight and try to look after myself because I felt
really sad when they used to say stuff to me.

"I've been taking my medication so I hope I'll grow taller in the future. They
never used to say anything to me about my pot belly, but it was always about my
height."

Full-time mum-of-three Hadia, 37, added: "I knew something wasn't right with
her, but the doctors kept sending me home, telling me she was normal. But I
could tell she wasn't like my other two children. She was really tired all the
time, and had no energy.

"She had a larger stomach and would cry all the time. She wasn't a happy child."

Matab explained: "My mum tries not to show that she's sad, but I can actually
see that she's really scared inside.

"Sometimes I get stress nightmares because I'm worrying about my family.

"I now write poems to cheer myself up."

Matab, who is only one of two patients being treated for Type I of the genetic
disease at the hospital out of 89,000 patients, joined other rare disease
sufferers to promote the Stars Of Steelhouse Lane exhibition being held in
Victoria Square. Other children included Matilda Hatton, from Walsall, who is
one of an estimated 20 people to have Sensenbrenner Syndrome, siblings Noah and
Ruby Harvey, from West Bromwich, who both have Glutaric Aciduria Type 1, and
Skye Gardner, from Wednesbury who has Williams Syndrome.

The appeal needs to raise £3.65 million and will lead to a Rare Diseases Centre
based at the hospital. It will bring a team of experts from all the specialities
at the hospital under one roof and increase research into the many different
conditions.

¦To donate, see www.bch.org.uk/stars or text RARE to 70020 to donate £3.

I used to just stand up straight and try to look after myself because I felt
really sad when they used to say stuff to me.  ;  ;  Matab Jumaa  ;

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BMM


               Copyright 2016 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved


                              367 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                            China Daily - US Edition

                           September 4, 2014 Thursday

Caring out of the ordinary

LENGTH: 1773  words


It has been three years, but Li Jia still remembers the day when she looked into
her daughter's eyes and saw nothing.

Understanding, family support remain crucial for Chinese children suffering from
rare diseases, reports Zhao Xu.

It has been three years, but Li Jia still remembers the day when she looked into
her daughter's eyes and saw nothing.

"Her eyes wandered past me to focus, in an unfathomable gaze, on the motionless
tree leaves outside our apartment window. There was no flame of excitement, no
glint of curiosity, not even a faint glimmer of interest inside her dewy eyes,
only the blurry outlines of the tree," recalled the mother, in a voice as
calming as it was emotionally disturbing.

A volunteer playing with children suffering from osteogenesis imperfecta at an
event organized by the Beijing-based China-Dolls Center for Rare Disorders. Zhu
Xingxin / China Daily

Gu Ruofan, 15, who suffers from mucopolysaccharidosis, with her mother Zheng Yu
at the Beijing West Railway Station on Aug 21. Wang Jing / China Daily

An An, 4, kisses her sister Jia Jia. An An was diagnosed with Rett syndrome when
she was 16 months old. Provided to China Daily

"For a brief moment, I felt my heart had been hollowed out. I was terrified."

What soon came after that fateful day was a discovery that plunged the whole
family into turbulent waters. Li's daughter, An An, then merely 16 months old,
was diagnosed with Rett syndrome, a sporadic neurological disorder that strikes
one in every 15,000 people, predominantly female.

In its early stages, the syndrome's symptoms are similar to that of autism.
Although patients gradually open up, in most cases, they will be unable to use
their hands or feet, or develop any verbal skills, as a direct result of the
brain damage. The majority fail to live beyond their 30s.

"It was excruciatingly painful - I cried my eyes out. But we persisted, living
on day by day with all the mishaps and mayhem of the disease while hoping for
the best," said the 36-year-old mother.

"In retrospect, any possible road leading to the future begins with acceptance;
to accept the illness for what it really is. For a child patient, that
acceptance starts to build with his or her family."

Yet that process could take years, said Wei Min, a leading pediatrician with
Peking Union Medical College Hospital in Beijing.

"Upon being told the bad news, some parents just collapsed, while others sat
there, dumbfounded, seeing and hearing no more. But all would eventually manage
a reprieve from the initial shock to ask the same question: 'How could this be
true?' And you know instinctively that no amount of medical knowledge would help
here," said Wei, 69.

"Quite often, such denials are aided by the fact that rare diseases, by
definition, are diseases that hit only a tiny segment of the population."

Rough figures

In the United States, the Rare Diseases Act of 2002 defines the term as any
disease or condition that affects fewer than 200,000 people in the country, or
about one in 1,500 people. In Japan, that ratio is set at about one in 2,500
people.

However, ratio alone can give the wrong impression, and in a country as populous
as China, "tiny" means more than 15 million people, Wei said.

"The 15 million figure often cited for China is a rough estimate at best, since
we have no official definition for 'rare diseases' and have conducted no
comprehensive census on the number of sufferers. Among them, nearly 70 percent
are children."

Wang Yi'ou is the founder of the Beijing-based NGO China-Dolls Center For Rare
Disorders. After suffering repeated fractures since 1, Wang was diagnosed with
osteogenesis imperfecta, also known as brittle bone disease, at the age of 16.
Hitting one per 20,000 live births, the congenital disease gives its victims
defective connective tissue, rendering them petite "China dolls" with stunted
growth and fragile bones.

"There was one time two years ago, when we sent a copy of our monthly magazine
to an address we believed to have belonged to a fellow patient. A few days
later, we got a reply, in the form of a mail parcel, which contained a pair of
scissors and a scribbling of words. It basically read: 'Dare to send me another
copy and I'll commit suicide in front of you'," said Wang, 32.

"A phone call soon followed, made by a woman who admitted to subscribing our
magazine with the address. It was not meant for her son, who had brittle bone
disease, but for herself and her husband, the heartbroken mother told us."

"She said, 'It kills my son to be reminded that he's a rare-disease patient. I
don't know how he found the magazine, but please, don't send it, never again!'"
Wang said.

"Telling from my own experience, the boy's denial of his own condition, and by
extension himself, has stemmed in large part from the evasiveness adopted by his
entire family against the disease. What was meant to be protection ended up to
be harm."

Wang's organization is one of the major Chinese beneficiaries of donations from
the popular Ice Bucket Challenge campaign helping sufferers of amyotrophic
lateral sclerosis disease.

Zheng Yu, whose 15-year-old daughter, Gu Ruofan, first showed signs of a rare
disease called mucopolysaccharidosis in kindergarten, believes that an adult
very often fails to gauge the grit of a minor.

"My girl was diagnosed at 4, but we kept it from her for another four years,
until 2007, when I took her to a symposium in Taiwan focused on the disease. We
were sitting below while medical experts from around the world discussed its
many symptoms and possible alleviations, including hindered growth, a thicker
neck and unusable legs," Zheng said.

"Suddenly, my daughter looked up at me and asked, 'Mom, is this the same one
that I've got?' "

" 'Are you OK?' I asked. 'Yeah ... I think I've been doing far better than many
of them, right? ' my daughter answered. And that was it," remembered the
41-year-old. "Then I knew I was the weak one."

If acknowledging the stark reality of a rare disease represents the first step
forward, then what comes next should be opening up to the world around, said
Meng Yan, a genetic disease expert from the 301 Hospital in Beijing. Again,
parents play a crucial role.

"A rare-disease child, especially those with conspicuous physical changes, draws
confidence from his loved ones to face up to the inquisitive stares he or she is
certain to encounter out on the streets," she said.

"It's important to remember that parental love, however fierce and devoted, can
never fill the void left in a child's heart by the lack of friends."

Gu Ruofan said her daily walks from the classroom to the playground constituted
both her happiest and saddest moments.

"I'm the happiest when my best friend is at my side. But when we have a quarrel
and she runs away, leaving me shuffling behind, dragging my legs, I'm the
saddest," she said.

A sense of regimen

A rare-disease child who has decided to "go out" is almost certain to suffer
occasional emotional pain, said Zheng, who insists that her daughter goes to
school.

"For anyone, with or without a disease, respect is something to be earned," she
said. "If life's a battle, then I've put her on the front line fighting for
herself, while letting her know that I'm always here with her. Love is the best
balm when there's a wound."

Yet no love should stand in the way of parents taking disciplinary action
against their "rare kids", conceded Zhao Ning, whose 8-year-old daughter was
diagnosed with phenylketonuria, a metabolic genetic disorder, upon birth.
Sufferers of the disease lack in their body a special type of enzyme necessary
for metabolizing amino acid.

"Patients should wean themselves off any 'normal food', and instead eat only
'synthesized food', which contains a much lower protein level yet tastes worse
than starch. But in reality, many parents relented after their kids pleaded
repeatedly to have, say, a chocolate bar or simply a piece of meat. I'm the
opposite of these parents," said the 40-year-old.

"My daughter once stole some cakes from the kitchen. She was just about 5 or 6,
but I beat her hand with a stick so hard that it became seriously swollen. After
that, I locked myself in my room and slapped my own face 10 times harder.

"The idea that your rare-disease child needs to take no responsibility for his
or her health is a myth, and encourages nothing but self-pity," said Zhao, whose
daughter, apart from attending regular schools, has learned to play music and
even swim.

"It's up to parents to instill in their kids a strong sense of regimen, which
they then need to plan their lives around their disease."

In January this year, Li Jia gave birth to her second daughter, Jia Jia.

"She's a healthy baby, having learned to crawl at 5 months old," said the proud
mother.

"I understand all the concerns a 'rare parent' has in not having another child,
but my little one is working miracles on her elder sister.

"Due to her illness, An An was slow to react. There was this time when Jia Jia
called out at her sister, making a prolonged 'Ah' sound while waiting for her
reply. This lasted for about half a minute, until An An finally looked up from
her seemingly unstoppable hand-wringing," Li said. "That moment was so touching
- none of us adults had ever given An An that much time as her little sister. "

Wei, the pediatrician, said she could not put enough emphasis on the role of
family, especially parents.

"Worldwide, nearly 7,000 different types of rare diseases have been identified.
For the overwhelming majority of them, no cure exists or is likely to be found
in the near future," she said.

"If anything, the stark reality has made it more crucial for parents to remember
that your rare child has a life to explore, whatever its length. They are
responsible for laying the very first brick for the bridge of understanding
between a rare kid and his disease, between him and the rest of the world."

And that effort will never go unappreciated, Li said.

"Sometimes, An An would give me a lick on the face, which is her way to plant a
kiss. Other times, she'll just nuzzle up toward me, like a little cub, and the
tiny sound from her nostrils assures me that she's comfortable and contented,"
she said.

Early this year, Li got an email from the mother of another child suffering from
Rett syndrome, from overseas.

"She wrote about communicating with her brain-damaged daughter, with the help of
an eye-tracking machine that could read a person's mind by capturing the
movements of his or her eyeballs," Li said.

"At the end of the conversation, the screen came up with these words: 'Mom, I
love you'."

Contact the writer at zhaoxu@chinadaily.com.cn

(China Daily USA 09/04/2014 page7)

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1496


                    Copyright 2014 China Daily Information.
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              368 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                  China Daily

                           September 4, 2014 Thursday

Caring out of the ordinary

BYLINE: Zhao Xu

LENGTH: 1772  words


It has been three years, but Li Jia still remembers the day when she looked into
her daughter's eyes and saw nothing.

Understanding, family support remain crucial for Chinese children suffering from
rare diseases, reports Zhao Xu.

It has been three years, but Li Jia still remembers the day when she looked into
her daughter's eyes and saw nothing.

"Her eyes wandered past me to focus, in an unfathomable gaze, on the motionless
tree leaves outside our apartment window. There was no flame of excitement, no
glint of curiosity, not even a faint glimmer of interest inside her dewy eyes,
only the blurry outlines of the tree," recalled the mother, in a voice as
calming as it was emotionally disturbing.

A volunteer playing with children suffering from osteogenesis imperfecta at an
event organized by the Beijing-based China-Dolls Center for Rare Disorders. Zhu
Xingxin / China Daily

Gu Ruofan, 15, who suffers from mucopolysaccharidosis, with her mother Zheng Yu
at the Beijing West Railway Station on Aug 21. Wang Jing / China Daily

An An, 4, kisses her sister Jia Jia. An An was diagnosed with Rett syndrome when
she was 16 months old. Provided to China Daily

"For a brief moment, I felt my heart had been hollowed out. I was terrified."

What soon came after that fateful day was a discovery that plunged the whole
family into turbulent waters. Li's daughter, An An, then merely 16 months old,
was diagnosed with Rett syndrome, a sporadic neurological disorder that strikes
one in every 15,000 people, predominantly female.

In its early stages, the syndrome's symptoms are similar to that of autism.
Although patients gradually open up, in most cases, they will be unable to use
their hands or feet, or develop any verbal skills, as a direct result of the
brain damage. The majority fail to live beyond their 30s.

"It was excruciatingly painful - I cried my eyes out. But we persisted, living
on day by day with all the mishaps and mayhem of the disease while hoping for
the best," said the 36-year-old mother.

"In retrospect, any possible road leading to the future begins with acceptance;
to accept the illness for what it really is. For a child patient, that
acceptance starts to build with his or her family."

Yet that process could take years, said Wei Min, a leading pediatrician with
Peking Union Medical College Hospital in Beijing.

"Upon being told the bad news, some parents just collapsed, while others sat
there, dumbfounded, seeing and hearing no more. But all would eventually manage
a reprieve from the initial shock to ask the same question: 'How could this be
true?' And you know instinctively that no amount of medical knowledge would help
here," said Wei, 69.

"Quite often, such denials are aided by the fact that rare diseases, by
definition, are diseases that hit only a tiny segment of the population."

Rough figures

In the United States, the Rare Diseases Act of 2002 defines the term as any
disease or condition that affects fewer than 200,000 people in the country, or
about one in 1,500 people. In Japan, that ratio is set at about one in 2,500
people.

However, ratio alone can give the wrong impression, and in a country as populous
as China, "tiny" means more than 15 million people, Wei said.

"The 15 million figure often cited for China is a rough estimate at best, since
we have no official definition for 'rare diseases' and have conducted no
comprehensive census on the number of sufferers. Among them, nearly 70 percent
are children."

Wang Yi'ou is the founder of the Beijing-based NGO China-Dolls Center For Rare
Disorders. After suffering repeated fractures since 1, Wang was diagnosed with
osteogenesis imperfecta, also known as brittle bone disease, at the age of 16.
Hitting one per 20,000 live births, the congenital disease gives its victims
defective connective tissue, rendering them petite "China dolls" with stunted
growth and fragile bones.

"There was one time two years ago, when we sent a copy of our monthly magazine
to an address we believed to have belonged to a fellow patient. A few days
later, we got a reply, in the form of a mail parcel, which contained a pair of
scissors and a scribbling of words. It basically read: 'Dare to send me another
copy and I'll commit suicide in front of you'," said Wang, 32.

"A phone call soon followed, made by a woman who admitted to subscribing our
magazine with the address. It was not meant for her son, who had brittle bone
disease, but for herself and her husband, the heartbroken mother told us."

"She said, 'It kills my son to be reminded that he's a rare-disease patient. I
don't know how he found the magazine, but please, don't send it, never again!'"
Wang said.

"Telling from my own experience, the boy's denial of his own condition, and by
extension himself, has stemmed in large part from the evasiveness adopted by his
entire family against the disease. What was meant to be protection ended up to
be harm."

Wang's organization is one of the major Chinese beneficiaries of donations from
the popular Ice Bucket Challenge campaign helping sufferers of amyotrophic
lateral sclerosis disease.

Zheng Yu, whose 15-year-old daughter, Gu Ruofan, first showed signs of a rare
disease called mucopolysaccharidosis in kindergarten, believes that an adult
very often fails to gauge the grit of a minor.

"My girl was diagnosed at 4, but we kept it from her for another four years,
until 2007, when I took her to a symposium in Taiwan focused on the disease. We
were sitting below while medical experts from around the world discussed its
many symptoms and possible alleviations, including hindered growth, a thicker
neck and unusable legs," Zheng said.

"Suddenly, my daughter looked up at me and asked, 'Mom, is this the same one
that I've got?' "

" 'Are you OK?' I asked. 'Yeah ... I think I've been doing far better than many
of them, right? ' my daughter answered. And that was it," remembered the
41-year-old. "Then I knew I was the weak one."

If acknowledging the stark reality of a rare disease represents the first step
forward, then what comes next should be opening up to the world around, said
Meng Yan, a genetic disease expert from the 301 Hospital in Beijing. Again,
parents play a crucial role.

"A rare-disease child, especially those with conspicuous physical changes, draws
confidence from his loved ones to face up to the inquisitive stares he or she is
certain to encounter out on the streets," she said.

"It's important to remember that parental love, however fierce and devoted, can
never fill the void left in a child's heart by the lack of friends."

Gu Ruofan said her daily walks from the classroom to the playground constituted
both her happiest and saddest moments.

"I'm the happiest when my best friend is at my side. But when we have a quarrel
and she runs away, leaving me shuffling behind, dragging my legs, I'm the
saddest," she said.

A sense of regimen

A rare-disease child who has decided to "go out" is almost certain to suffer
occasional emotional pain, said Zheng, who insists that her daughter goes to
school.

"For anyone, with or without a disease, respect is something to be earned," she
said. "If life's a battle, then I've put her on the front line fighting for
herself, while letting her know that I'm always here with her. Love is the best
balm when there's a wound."

Yet no love should stand in the way of parents taking disciplinary action
against their "rare kids", conceded Zhao Ning, whose 8-year-old daughter was
diagnosed with phenylketonuria, a metabolic genetic disorder, upon birth.
Sufferers of the disease lack in their body a special type of enzyme necessary
for metabolizing amino acid.

"Patients should wean themselves off any 'normal food', and instead eat only
'synthesized food', which contains a much lower protein level yet tastes worse
than starch. But in reality, many parents relented after their kids pleaded
repeatedly to have, say, a chocolate bar or simply a piece of meat. I'm the
opposite of these parents," said the 40-year-old.

"My daughter once stole some cakes from the kitchen. She was just about 5 or 6,
but I beat her hand with a stick so hard that it became seriously swollen. After
that, I locked myself in my room and slapped my own face 10 times harder.

"The idea that your rare-disease child needs to take no responsibility for his
or her health is a myth, and encourages nothing but self-pity," said Zhao, whose
daughter, apart from attending regular schools, has learned to play music and
even swim.

"It's up to parents to instill in their kids a strong sense of regimen, which
they then need to plan their lives around their disease."

In January this year, Li Jia gave birth to her second daughter, Jia Jia.

"She's a healthy baby, having learned to crawl at 5 months old," said the proud
mother.

"I understand all the concerns a 'rare parent' has in not having another child,
but my little one is working miracles on her elder sister.

"Due to her illness, An An was slow to react. There was this time when Jia Jia
called out at her sister, making a prolonged 'Ah' sound while waiting for her
reply. This lasted for about half a minute, until An An finally looked up from
her seemingly unstoppable hand-wringing," Li said. "That moment was so touching
- none of us adults had ever given An An that much time as her little sister. "

Wei, the pediatrician, said she could not put enough emphasis on the role of
family, especially parents.

"Worldwide, nearly 7,000 different types of rare diseases have been identified.
For the overwhelming majority of them, no cure exists or is likely to be found
in the near future," she said.

"If anything, the stark reality has made it more crucial for parents to remember
that your rare child has a life to explore, whatever its length. They are
responsible for laying the very first brick for the bridge of understanding
between a rare kid and his disease, between him and the rest of the world."

And that effort will never go unappreciated, Li said.

"Sometimes, An An would give me a lick on the face, which is her way to plant a
kiss. Other times, she'll just nuzzle up toward me, like a little cub, and the
tiny sound from her nostrils assures me that she's comfortable and contented,"
she said.

Early this year, Li got an email from the mother of another child suffering from
Rett syndrome, from overseas.

"She wrote about communicating with her brain-damaged daughter, with the help of
an eye-tracking machine that could read a person's mind by capturing the
movements of his or her eyeballs," Li said.

"At the end of the conversation, the screen came up with these words: 'Mom, I
love you'."

Contact the writer at zhaoxu@chinadaily.com.cn

(China Daily 09/04/2014 page5)

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1493


                    Copyright 2014 China Daily Information.
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              369 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                  China Daily

                           September 4, 2014 Thursday

Caring out of the ordinary

BYLINE: Zhao Xu

LENGTH: 1772  words


It has been three years, but Li Jia still remembers the day when she looked into
her daughter's eyes and saw nothing.

Understanding, family support remain crucial for Chinese children suffering from
rare diseases, reports Zhao Xu.

It has been three years, but Li Jia still remembers the day when she looked into
her daughter's eyes and saw nothing.

"Her eyes wandered past me to focus, in an unfathomable gaze, on the motionless
tree leaves outside our apartment window. There was no flame of excitement, no
glint of curiosity, not even a faint glimmer of interest inside her dewy eyes,
only the blurry outlines of the tree," recalled the mother, in a voice as
calming as it was emotionally disturbing.

A volunteer playing with children suffering from osteogenesis imperfecta at an
event organized by the Beijing-based China-Dolls Center for Rare Disorders. Zhu
Xingxin / China Daily

Gu Ruofan, 15, who suffers from mucopolysaccharidosis, with her mother Zheng Yu
at the Beijing West Railway Station on Aug 21. Wang Jing / China Daily

An An, 4, kisses her sister Jia Jia. An An was diagnosed with Rett syndrome when
she was 16 months old. Provided to China Daily

"For a brief moment, I felt my heart had been hollowed out. I was terrified."

What soon came after that fateful day was a discovery that plunged the whole
family into turbulent waters. Li's daughter, An An, then merely 16 months old,
was diagnosed with Rett syndrome, a sporadic neurological disorder that strikes
one in every 15,000 people, predominantly female.

In its early stages, the syndrome's symptoms are similar to that of autism.
Although patients gradually open up, in most cases, they will be unable to use
their hands or feet, or develop any verbal skills, as a direct result of the
brain damage. The majority fail to live beyond their 30s.

"It was excruciatingly painful - I cried my eyes out. But we persisted, living
on day by day with all the mishaps and mayhem of the disease while hoping for
the best," said the 36-year-old mother.

"In retrospect, any possible road leading to the future begins with acceptance;
to accept the illness for what it really is. For a child patient, that
acceptance starts to build with his or her family."

Yet that process could take years, said Wei Min, a leading pediatrician with
Peking Union Medical College Hospital in Beijing.

"Upon being told the bad news, some parents just collapsed, while others sat
there, dumbfounded, seeing and hearing no more. But all would eventually manage
a reprieve from the initial shock to ask the same question: 'How could this be
true?' And you know instinctively that no amount of medical knowledge would help
here," said Wei, 69.

"Quite often, such denials are aided by the fact that rare diseases, by
definition, are diseases that hit only a tiny segment of the population."

Rough figures

In the United States, the Rare Diseases Act of 2002 defines the term as any
disease or condition that affects fewer than 200,000 people in the country, or
about one in 1,500 people. In Japan, that ratio is set at about one in 2,500
people.

However, ratio alone can give the wrong impression, and in a country as populous
as China, "tiny" means more than 15 million people, Wei said.

"The 15 million figure often cited for China is a rough estimate at best, since
we have no official definition for 'rare diseases' and have conducted no
comprehensive census on the number of sufferers. Among them, nearly 70 percent
are children."

Wang Yi'ou is the founder of the Beijing-based NGO China-Dolls Center For Rare
Disorders. After suffering repeated fractures since 1, Wang was diagnosed with
osteogenesis imperfecta, also known as brittle bone disease, at the age of 16.
Hitting one per 20,000 live births, the congenital disease gives its victims
defective connective tissue, rendering them petite "China dolls" with stunted
growth and fragile bones.

"There was one time two years ago, when we sent a copy of our monthly magazine
to an address we believed to have belonged to a fellow patient. A few days
later, we got a reply, in the form of a mail parcel, which contained a pair of
scissors and a scribbling of words. It basically read: 'Dare to send me another
copy and I'll commit suicide in front of you'," said Wang, 32.

"A phone call soon followed, made by a woman who admitted to subscribing our
magazine with the address. It was not meant for her son, who had brittle bone
disease, but for herself and her husband, the heartbroken mother told us."

"She said, 'It kills my son to be reminded that he's a rare-disease patient. I
don't know how he found the magazine, but please, don't send it, never again!'"
Wang said.

"Telling from my own experience, the boy's denial of his own condition, and by
extension himself, has stemmed in large part from the evasiveness adopted by his
entire family against the disease. What was meant to be protection ended up to
be harm."

Wang's organization is one of the major Chinese beneficiaries of donations from
the popular Ice Bucket Challenge campaign helping sufferers of amyotrophic
lateral sclerosis disease.

Zheng Yu, whose 15-year-old daughter, Gu Ruofan, first showed signs of a rare
disease called mucopolysaccharidosis in kindergarten, believes that an adult
very often fails to gauge the grit of a minor.

"My girl was diagnosed at 4, but we kept it from her for another four years,
until 2007, when I took her to a symposium in Taiwan focused on the disease. We
were sitting below while medical experts from around the world discussed its
many symptoms and possible alleviations, including hindered growth, a thicker
neck and unusable legs," Zheng said.

"Suddenly, my daughter looked up at me and asked, 'Mom, is this the same one
that I've got?' "

" 'Are you OK?' I asked. 'Yeah ... I think I've been doing far better than many
of them, right? ' my daughter answered. And that was it," remembered the
41-year-old. "Then I knew I was the weak one."

If acknowledging the stark reality of a rare disease represents the first step
forward, then what comes next should be opening up to the world around, said
Meng Yan, a genetic disease expert from the 301 Hospital in Beijing. Again,
parents play a crucial role.

"A rare-disease child, especially those with conspicuous physical changes, draws
confidence from his loved ones to face up to the inquisitive stares he or she is
certain to encounter out on the streets," she said.

"It's important to remember that parental love, however fierce and devoted, can
never fill the void left in a child's heart by the lack of friends."

Gu Ruofan said her daily walks from the classroom to the playground constituted
both her happiest and saddest moments.

"I'm the happiest when my best friend is at my side. But when we have a quarrel
and she runs away, leaving me shuffling behind, dragging my legs, I'm the
saddest," she said.

A sense of regimen

A rare-disease child who has decided to "go out" is almost certain to suffer
occasional emotional pain, said Zheng, who insists that her daughter goes to
school.

"For anyone, with or without a disease, respect is something to be earned," she
said. "If life's a battle, then I've put her on the front line fighting for
herself, while letting her know that I'm always here with her. Love is the best
balm when there's a wound."

Yet no love should stand in the way of parents taking disciplinary action
against their "rare kids", conceded Zhao Ning, whose 8-year-old daughter was
diagnosed with phenylketonuria, a metabolic genetic disorder, upon birth.
Sufferers of the disease lack in their body a special type of enzyme necessary
for metabolizing amino acid.

"Patients should wean themselves off any 'normal food', and instead eat only
'synthesized food', which contains a much lower protein level yet tastes worse
than starch. But in reality, many parents relented after their kids pleaded
repeatedly to have, say, a chocolate bar or simply a piece of meat. I'm the
opposite of these parents," said the 40-year-old.

"My daughter once stole some cakes from the kitchen. She was just about 5 or 6,
but I beat her hand with a stick so hard that it became seriously swollen. After
that, I locked myself in my room and slapped my own face 10 times harder.

"The idea that your rare-disease child needs to take no responsibility for his
or her health is a myth, and encourages nothing but self-pity," said Zhao, whose
daughter, apart from attending regular schools, has learned to play music and
even swim.

"It's up to parents to instill in their kids a strong sense of regimen, which
they then need to plan their lives around their disease."

In January this year, Li Jia gave birth to her second daughter, Jia Jia.

"She's a healthy baby, having learned to crawl at 5 months old," said the proud
mother.

"I understand all the concerns a 'rare parent' has in not having another child,
but my little one is working miracles on her elder sister.

"Due to her illness, An An was slow to react. There was this time when Jia Jia
called out at her sister, making a prolonged 'Ah' sound while waiting for her
reply. This lasted for about half a minute, until An An finally looked up from
her seemingly unstoppable hand-wringing," Li said. "That moment was so touching
- none of us adults had ever given An An that much time as her little sister. "

Wei, the pediatrician, said she could not put enough emphasis on the role of
family, especially parents.

"Worldwide, nearly 7,000 different types of rare diseases have been identified.
For the overwhelming majority of them, no cure exists or is likely to be found
in the near future," she said.

"If anything, the stark reality has made it more crucial for parents to remember
that your rare child has a life to explore, whatever its length. They are
responsible for laying the very first brick for the bridge of understanding
between a rare kid and his disease, between him and the rest of the world."

And that effort will never go unappreciated, Li said.

"Sometimes, An An would give me a lick on the face, which is her way to plant a
kiss. Other times, she'll just nuzzle up toward me, like a little cub, and the
tiny sound from her nostrils assures me that she's comfortable and contented,"
she said.

Early this year, Li got an email from the mother of another child suffering from
Rett syndrome, from overseas.

"She wrote about communicating with her brain-damaged daughter, with the help of
an eye-tracking machine that could read a person's mind by capturing the
movements of his or her eyeballs," Li said.

"At the end of the conversation, the screen came up with these words: 'Mom, I
love you'."

Contact the writer at zhaoxu@chinadaily.com.cn

(China Daily 09/04/2014 page5)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1493


                    Copyright 2014 China Daily Information.
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              370 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                           Daily News (South Africa)

                              July 26, 2010 Monday
                                   E1 Edition

Rare disease leaves girl in hospital for nine months

BYLINE:  Lyse Comins

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 621 words


EVERY morning Retha Vosloo wakes up at St Augustineâ[#x20ac][TM]s Hospital,
where she has been living with her sick daughter, Mineâ[#x20ac][TM], for the
past nine months.

She gets ready in the ward to go to work at a car dealership, and in the
evenings prepares food in her Glenwood home to take to the paediatric ward.

Vosloo, a single mother, moved to Glenwood from Ballito to be close to
seven-year-old Mineâ[#x20ac][TM] after she was diagnosed with a rare disease
â[#x20ac]" atypical haemolytic syndrome (HUS) â[#x20ac]" and where she waits in
hope for a new drug that will stabilise her for a kidney transplant. She is one
of two children in South Africa living with the disease.

Mineâ[#x20ac][TM] has been living in the Durban hospital since November 2009,
where she has regular dialysis and blood cleaning (plasmapheresis) treatment.
Her spleen and heart are enlarged and she has to take seven different blood
pressure tablets, among a total of 30 pills a day.

â[#x20ac]oeWhen we stop plasmapheresis, after a few weeks the disease gets
active and her haemoglobin and platelets drop. She started getting seizures
because of high blood pressure,â[#x20ac] Vosloo said.

â[#x20ac]oeShe has had 22 blood transfusions and is on chronic dialysis three
times a week, three hours at a time, which is doing her kidneyâ[#x20ac][TM]s
function.â[#x20ac]

But Mineâ[#x20ac][TM] has not always been sickly, which makes the heartbreak all
the more confusing.

â[#x20ac]oeShe was the healthiest child. I think the worst she ever got was
sinus. We were coming home from holiday in Warmbaths last August and
Mineâ[#x20ac][TM] got sick on the aeroplane and then she started with a fever.
When they first admitted her to Alberlito hospital they said she
wasnâ[#x20ac][TM]t going to make it. They took blood tests and the results were
that her kidneys were shutting down. She was transferred to Garden City hospital
in Johannesburg where they stabilised her,â[#x20ac] Vosloo said.

Syndrome

Doctors then diagnosed her with regular haemolytic syndrome (HUS) which is
caused by an infection, which is commonly from a bacteria called Escherichia
coli but in SA is caused by the bacteria Shigella dysenteriae type one that
presents with bloody diarrhoea (dysentery).

Vosloo was then referred to paediatric nephrologist, Professor Rajendra Bhimma
of the University of KwaZulu-Natalâ[#x20ac][TM]s school of paediatrics and child
health, who has been treating Mineâ[#x20ac][TM]. It was Bhimma who discovered
she had a genetic type of the disease â[#x20ac]" atypical haemolytic syndrome.

â[#x20ac]oeThe child has a rare disorder due to a mutation in a set of genes
that control the complement system. It is often inherited as an autosomal
recessive condition but in several cases these mutations in the genes are
sporadic,â[#x20ac] Bhimma said.

However, he said Mineâ[#x20ac][TM]s chances of survival were good but she would
need long-term dialysis, cleansing of her blood and a kidney transplant.

â[#x20ac]oeTreatment using a new agent called Ecluzimab (Solaris) will be useful
to block the production of abnormal complement proteins and prevent further
damage to her kidneys and improve her blood counts. But even after the kidney
transplant there is an 80 percent chance that the disease could come back and
attack the new kidney,â[#x20ac] Bhimma said.

Bhimma has applied under section 21 of the Medicines Controls Act for special
permission to administer the unregistered drug to Mineâ[#x20ac][TM] â[#x20ac]"
the only hurdle now is the cost. The Swiss-manufactured drug costs R70 000 a
vial and she needs 14 vials to begin with at a cost of R980 000.

Her medical aid has already footed a R1.2 million bill and has so far declined
to pay for the medication.

â[#x20ac]oeI thank God for this doctor (Bhimma) because he has done so much. If
she canâ[#x20ac][TM]t have a kidney transplant she will be on dialysis for the
rest of her life. I am stuck. I donâ[#x20ac][TM]t know where to go from
here.â[#x20ac]

lyse.comins@inl.co.za

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: ND


                 Copyright 2010 Independent News and Media Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              371 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                              Health Daily Digest

                           September 26, 2016 Monday

Novartis' Ilaris Receives FDA Nod for Three Rare Diseases

LENGTH: 220 words

DATELINE: U.S.


U.S., Sept. 26 -- According to a recent report, the Food and Drug Administration
(FDA) has given green light to three novel expanded indications for Ilaris
(canakinumab), which is the first once-a-month (4 weeks) injection approved by
the FDA for active systemic juvenile idiopathic arthritis (SJIA) in children
aged two and above.

The new indications are tumor necrosis factor receptor associated periodic
syndrome (TRAPS), hyperimmunoglobulin D syndrome (HIDS) or Mevalonate Kinase
Deficiency (MKD) and familial mediterranean fever (FMF). The three syndromes are
hereditary diseases and characterized by periodic attacks of fever and
inflammation, and serious muscle pain.

The novel indications are for rare and severe auto-inflammatory diseases among
adults and pediatric patients. Reportedly, Ilaris was previously granted an
approval for another periodic fever syndrome known as Cryopyrin-Associated
Periodic Syndromes (CAPS - a group of rare, inherited and autoinflammatory
diseases). The drug was also authorized for active SJIA.

The treatment is manufactured and distributed by Novartis Pharmaceuticals
Corporation.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Health Daily Digest. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2016 HT Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              372 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                      South China Morning Post (Hong Kong)

                               December 19, 1999

Twin with rare disease undergoes risky transplant

BYLINE: Emma Batha in London

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 319 words


BRITISH doctors treating twin babies dying of a rare disease have been forced to
experiment with a risky new technique on one of the boys after failing to find a
suitable bone marrow donor.

It will be several weeks before they know whether the procedure has saved 11
-month-old Alex Chan Wen-sang's life.

The boys' father, Alan Chan Wei-hung, gave doctors the go-ahead to carry out a
peripheral stem-cell transplant using himself as a donor after searches of bone
marrow registries around the world failed to turn up a suitable match for Alex
or his brother Oscar Chan Wen-ong.

On Wednesday, doctors extracted stem cells, or baby cells, from Mr Chan's
bloodstream and introduced them into Alex, the weaker of the twins, in the same
way as a blood transfusion. The hospital said the transplant had proceeded
smoothly.

The hope is that Mr Chan's stem cells will mature into bone marrow cells inside
his son, to produce a healthy immune system.

Alex and Oscar, who are half-Chinese, half-Slovakian, have Wiskott-Aldrich
syndrome which means they are vulnerable to the slightest infection.

It is the first time doctors in Britain have experimented with the new procedure
in treating the syndrome.

Mr Chan, 35, whose parents come from Hong Kong, said the treatment had had a 50
per cent success rate in Germany.

The main dangers were that Alex could catch an infection before his new immune
system had a chance to develop, or that he could reject the transplanted stem
cells.

Alex is likely to spend another two months at London's Great Ormond Street
Children's Hospital, where he has been in an isolation unit for the past four
months.

The search has been complicated by the fact the boys have inherited tissue
characteristics unique to Orientals.

Doctors have already ruled out Mr Chan and his family as bone marrow donors, as
their tissue types are only partial matches.

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                  Copyright 1999 South China Morning Post Ltd.


                              373 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                             hollywoodreporter.com

                           September 15, 2014 Monday

6 Rare Illnesses That Hollywood Has Put in the Spotlight -- and 1 It Hasn't
(Yet)

BYLINE: Rebecca Sun

SECTION: NEWS; TAG

LENGTH: 1219  words


A version of this story first appeared in the Sept. 19 issue of The Hollywood
Reporter magazine.

Rob Ashe's daughter was 4 days old when he first saw the word "arthrogryposis,"
written on her incubator in the NICU. Elliot, now 4, had been born with severe
contraction in her major joints, resulting in extremely low muscle tone. Only
one in 3,000 newborns has the condition. "There still isn't a ton of research,"
says Ashe, an Emmy-nominated editor on TBS' Conan. Geneticist Dr. Judith G.
Hall, who has studied arthrogryposis extensively, had one big piece of advice
for Ashe when she learned about his line of work: "You need to get celebrities
involved."

For those touched by the 6,800-plus classified rare (or orphan) diseases, each
occurring in fewer than 200,000 people in the United States, access to such
powerful platforms is vital. Mass celebrity participation in the ALS Ice Bucket
Challenge has helped drive more than $112 million in donations to research a
disease that afflicts 30,000 Americans. That campaign has been the exception: "A
lot of these diseases go underfunded, and [researchers] never find a cure for
them," says Brillstein manager Andrea Pett-Joseph, whose son Brandon has
epidermolysis bullosa (EB), a rare disorder that causes extremely fragile skin.
In response, Pett-Joseph helped establish the EB Medical Research Foundation,
enlisting the support of Hollywood stars including Brillstein clients Courteney
Cox, Zach Galifianakis and Nina Dobrev to raise more than $5 million to date for
research.

"The entertainment industry can be helpful in getting [rare diseases] the
attention and funds they need," says UTA CEO Jeremy Zimmer, whose friend Wendy
Landes died in 2013 of liposarcoma, an uncommon soft-tissue cancer. The agency
sponsors Wendy Walk, a sarcoma support group founded by Landes' children in her
honor. The organization has so far raised $2 million, which is "a drop in a
bucket in a breast cancer world, but for us, it's a lot," says Landes' daughter
Ali. "When people fund an orphan cancer, their resources can go a long way."

That's because a significant number of rare diseases are caused by single-gene
mutations that are relatively less complex to investigate, says Jill Wood. Such
disorders include her son Jonah's Sanfilippo syndrome, a metabolic disease that
leads to central nervous system degeneration. "Scientists say this is an easy
fix," she says. "We can have this done within five years if somebody threw $20
million at it." But Sanfilippo syndrome is too rare to attract the sponsorship
of a large pharmaceutical firm, so Wood and her husband, Jeremy Weishaar,
founded the charity Jonah's Just Begun to raise money. Last year Weishaar posted
a few fundraising flyers on the set of CBS' Elementary, where he's a camera
operator, catching the eye of series star Jonny Lee Miller.

"I didn't want to wait until it was my kid that has a rare disease," Miller
says. An avid runner, he decided to complete his next race for JJB; the actor
has since run 250 miles and raised $250,000 toward funding a clinical trial, and
his fans have donated directly to the family as well.

Spreading awareness reaps benefits beyond raising money. Because of their
rarity, research on orphan diseases is limited by small sample sizes.
Disneypublicist Carrie Davis and her sister, screenwriter Hadley Davis (Ice
Princess), are funding (with a matching gift from Disney) a study on
glioblastoma, the brain cancer that took their father's life in July. They're
working with Baylor oncologist Dr. Melissa Bondy to investigate evidence that
Ashkenazi Jews are more likely to get the disease and hope to identify more
affected families "who can help unravel the puzzle," Hadley says. The Jewish
Glioma Project soon will publish its first paper.

Educating the public on the existence of certain rare diseases also can help
correct tragic misdiagnoses. Janice McLaughlin's daughters Marissa and Mahrynn
suffered from an unknown neurological disease for more than a decade before a
genetic breakthrough last year finally identified their ailment: HBSL, a brain
disorder of which Marissa and Mahrynn have the only two known cases in America.
McLaughlin wants to get the word out about HBSL to spare other families the same
frustrating grappling for answers: "Who knows how many people are out there with
a [wrong] diagnosis of cerebral palsy? For me to tweet something is not going to
reach the same number of readers as if Pauley [Perrette] did it." The NCIS star
(who has 571,000 Twitter followers) befriended the McLaughlins a few years ago
after service at Hollywood United Methodist Church and is now set to serve on
the board of their upcoming foundation.

Without widespread institutional support already in place, putting together
these grassroots nonprofits takes time and energy that many families cannot
afford. "Working in television, where things are so rapidly paced, it was
challenging to do my job and maintain insurance while my daughter was fighting
for her life," says Aaron Hammersley, a Disney storyboard artist whose daughter
Hazel was diagnosed with neuroblastoma, a rare childhood cancer, last year. The
Hammersleys found assistance through a locally based organization called Here to
Serve, which matches families of critically ill children with volunteers such as
Paramount TV president Amy Powell, who has sent meals to the family - a big
relief to the Hammersleys, who welcomed their fifth child in July.

Conan editor Ashe and his wife, Angie, have also added to their family:
2-year-old Fiona, adopted from China. Fiona has a rare disease of her own:
amniotic band syndrome, a condition in the womb that left her with just three
developed fingers and a club foot. A couple of months ago, the two sisters had
surgery on the same day at Children's Hospital Los Angeles. "We always knew we
were going to adopt, but when Elliot was born, what we imagined our adopted
child would be changed," Ashe says. "Who better than us [to adopt a
special-needs child], especially since we already have an orthopedic medical
team in place?"

The Ashes have vowed to take every opportunity to spread awareness about their
daughters' rare diseases. But although Ashe has the Rolodex for heeding Dr.
Hall's advice, he does not yet have a charity in place for his colleagues to
give to. "I don't want to cash in those brownie points when there's nothing in
place [for researching my daughter's disease]," he says. "But the second we find
an opportunity to set up a foundation, we will."

More From THR's Top Doctors Issue:

Hollywood's Top Doctors Revealed: Exclusive SurveySee The Doctors With Their
Famous PatientsHollywood's Vaccine Wars: L.A.'s "Entitled" Westsiders Behind
City's EpidemicHollywood's Biggest Anti-Vaccine ProponentsHow to Live Forever:
The (Mad?) Science Hollywood Is Using to "Cure" Death'I'm Going to Live
Forever': Hollywood Elders' Best Quotes About AgingIs Working in Hollywood Bad
for Your Health?L.A.'s Emergency Rooms, RatedMeet the Real-Life McDreamy: The
Doctor Behind 'Grey's Anatomy'4 NYC-Based Physicians Loved by L.A.

NY Giants' Steve Tisch Reveals His $10M Plan to Further Concussion Research

Meet Morgan Freeman's Sikh

Chris Albrecht Recounts His Daughter's Harrowing Car Accident

Voice Doctor Who Treats KISS' Paul Stanley Shares His Advice to Rock-Star
Clients

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: ONLINE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                    Copyright 2014 VNU Business Media, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              374 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                  Korea Times

                          February 10, 2010 Wednesday

'Real' Sleeping Beauty

LENGTH: 122 words


You may be wondering if there is a real sleeping beauty. Well the answer is yes.
Louisa Ball, 15, is today's real life sleeping beauty.

She has been diagnosed with Klein Levin syndrome or more known as the Sleeping
Beauty syndrome. This is a very rare disease because only 1,000 cases have been
diagnosed worldwide.

Louisa Ball's sleep time reaches days. Her most recent sleep lasted for almost
13 days.

This is definitely a very serious case. Louisa Ball's sleeping beauty syndrome
has greatly affected her life. It basically interferes with her daily living.

Physicians believe that the sleeping beauty syndrome is caused by some sort of
viral infection. Let's hope that the experts may find a way to cure the sleeping
beauty syndrome.

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2010 The Korea Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              375 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                             May 16, 2015 Saturday

Cortendo AB: Cortendo Adds Two Late-Stage Assets to Its Rare Endocrine Disease
Franchise and Announces Related $33.2 Million Financing

LENGTH: 780  words


Washington, D.C.: Biotechnology Industry Organization has issued the following
news release:

GÖTEBORG, Sweden & TREVOSE, Pa.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Cortendo AB (publ) [ticker:
CORT on NOTC-A], a biopharmaceutical company focused on rare endocrine disorders
and other rare diseases, today announced that it has entered into an agreement
to acquire Aspireo Pharmaceuticals' Somatoprim (DG3173), an investigational
compound being studied for the treatment of acromegaly. Cortendo also recently
announced entering into an exclusive licensing agreement for commercialization
rights to Antisense Therapeutics' ATL1103 for endocrinology applications.
Additionally, Cortendo today announced that it has entered into an agreement to
raise approximately $33.2 million in a new private placement.

"We appreciate the support of all of our investors and their confidence in
Cortendo's ability to develop and commercialize novel therapeutics for the
treatment of rare endocrine disorders and other rare diseases"

Acquisition of Aspireo Pharmaceuticals' DG3173 for Acromegaly and Potential
Additional Applications

Cortendo has entered into an agreement to acquire Aspireo Pharmaceuticals'
DG3173, a next-generation, somatostatin analog (SSA) with a unique receptor
affinity profile, being investigated for the treatment of acromegaly, with
potential additional applications in Cushing's Syndrome and neuroendocrine
tumors.

Under the terms of the acquisition agreement, Cortendo will provide Aspireo
Pharmaceuticals approximately $30 million in Cortendo equity for Somatoprim
(DG3173). The completion of the acquisition of Somatoprim (DG3173) is subject
to, among other things, shareholder approval at the Annual General Meeting
(AGM), which is scheduled to be held on or about June 24, 2015. This acquisition
is expected to be completed shortly after the AGM.

In addition, as part of Cortendo's related round of financing, TVM Capital,
Aspireo's primary shareholder, will purchase $4.25 million of Cortendo shares.

"The addition of two novel, late-stage investigational compounds for the
treatment of rare endocrine disorders, DG3173 and ATL1103, coupled with our
existing Phase 3 asset for endogenous Cushing's Syndrome, COR-003, establishes
the cornerstone of Cortendo's rare endocrine disease franchise and demonstrates
our commitment to becoming a leader in providing innovative therapeutic options
to patients with rare diseases," said Matthew Pauls, president and chief
executive officer of Cortendo. "There are significant unmet needs in the
diagnosis and treatment of both endogenous Cushing's Syndrome and acromegaly,
and we are passionate about the opportunity to simultaneously advance
development of COR-003, DG3173 and ATL1103 and commence pre-commercialization
activities, and to ultimately provide these patients and the physicians who
treat them with novel therapeutic options," Pauls added.

Locust Walk and Pelican Advisors acted as Cortendo's and Aspireo
Pharmaceuticals' transaction advisors, respectively.

Financing

Cortendo has entered into an agreement to raise approximately $33.2 million in a
new private placement, the proceeds of which will be used for continued
development of COR-003 along with the planned development of the two new
programs. The subscription price is $1.322 per share and up to 25,128,559 new
shares will be issued to the investors.

New institutional investors in this round of financing include Longwood Capital,
TVM Capital and Granite Point Capital. Additionally, several existing investors,
including RA Capital, New Enterprise Associates, Broadfin Capital and HealthCap,
have also extended their investments in Cortendo through this round of
financing.

Notably, in addition to investing in Cortendo as part of the acquisition of
Aspireo Pharmaceuticals' DG3173, TVM Capital will invest an additional $4.25
million in the announced private placement.

The financing is subject to shareholder approval of the AGM, which is scheduled
to be held on or about June 24, 2015, and is subject to certain other
conditions, including expected gross proceeds of at least $20 million and the
non-occurrence of any material adverse effects (as defined in the agreement with
the investors) prior to completion.

"We appreciate the support of all of our investors and their confidence in
Cortendo's ability to develop and commercialize novel therapeutics for the
treatment of rare endocrine disorders and other rare diseases," said Matthew
Pauls, president and chief executive officer of Cortendo.

Locust Walk served as a consultant to Cortendo for this transaction.

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              376 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                              Journal of Commerce

                            August 24, 1987, Monday

LACK OF ACTION ON RATINGS FOR TAMPON ABSORBENCY HIT

BYLINE: (AP)

SECTION: INSURANCE, Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 538 words

DATELINE: CHICAGO -


Federal regulators have put millions of women at increased risk of getting toxic
shock syndrome by failing to come up with a uniform system for rating tampon
absorbency, says the head of a public health advocacy group.

Meanwhile scientists at the Centers for Disease Control in Atlanta say they've
confirmed that higher-absorbency tampons increase the risk of toxic shock
syndrome, and that absorbency may be a greater factor than the materials sed to
make the tampons.

The new study and criticisms by Dr. Sidney M. Wolfe of the Public Citizen Health
Research Group in Washington appear in a recent issue of the Journal of the
American Medical Association.

In his editorial, Dr. Wolfe wrote that the Food and Drug Administration received
its first alert in 1981 that a population-based study had found a link between
higher absorbency and higher risk.

Yet despite subsequent studies and the FDA's announced intention in 1984 to
require standardized absorbency labeling, the agency has "gone on again, off
again," he said.

"The failure of the Food and Drug Administration to warn women adequately based
on evidence available more than six years ago, a failure prolonged by the tampon
industry, has caused unnecessary risks to millions of American women who
regularly use tampons," Dr. Wolfe wrote.

In a statement issued last Thursday, the FDA said, "the agency did hope that an
industry agreement on standardization could produce useful information on the
labeling quicker than by regulation."

But manufacturers could not agree, it said, and the "agency is completing work
on a proposal now and hopes to publish it for public coment soon."

Dr. Claire V. Broome, one of the CDC researchers, said women must balance the
convenience of high-absorbency tampons against "reducing the risk somewhat of a
very rare disease.

"We're talking about only 2 cases per 100,000 menstruating women per year, which
is a rare disease," she said in a telephone interview.

The CDC researchers reviewed 285 cases of tampon-associated toxic shock syndrome
that occurred in 1983 and 1984 and found that increasing absorbency increased a
woman's odds of getting the syndrome, regardless of the material the tampon is
made of.

Use of the lowest absorbency tampon Tampax Regular - was associated with 4.7
times higher odds of getting the syndrome than use of no tampon. But use of two
of the highest-absorbency tampons - Kotex Super and OB Super - was linked with
odds 57 and 35.8 times greater, respectively.

Dr. Wolfe's group is proposing that manufacturers be required to indicate on
packages how a product compares to others in absorbency on a scale of 2 to 20.

The system would eliminate confusion caused by terms such as "regular," ''super"
and "super plus," which are misleading because one manufacturer's "regular" may
be more absorbent than another's "super," he said.

Dr. Wolfe said the most important lesson concerns the need to pay more attention
to early evidence of increased risks to public health, "even if the studies are
less than 'perfect.' "

A total of 2,962 cases of toxic shock syndrome have been reported since it was
first documented in 1978, and 127 cases have been fatal, Dr. Broome said.

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1987 The Journal of Commerce, Inc.


                              377 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                           December 19, 2000 Tuesday

Need info on rare diseases? Check the Web

SECTION: HEALTH; LETTERS FROM ACADEMIA; Pg. R6

LENGTH: 1125 words


After several years of tests and consultations with specialists, you finally
learn the diagnosis: You or someone you know has a rare, hereditary condition
that strikes just one in 20,000 people.

You've never heard of this disorder before and have no idea where to find out
about it. Your family doctor - and perhaps even a specialist - won't have the
in-depth knowledge you seek. The only written information you uncover is a brief
paragraph in a medical textbook. Finally, how can you join a support group for
this condition, when those affected are so few and far between?

People with so-called rare disorders are often in desperate need of information
about treatment, research advances and, in many cases, simple, basic knowledge
about their condition, says Maureen Gaetz-Faubert, who founded the Canadian
Organization for Rare Disorders in 1995.

After all, would you expect your doctor to know about Goodpasture Syndrome or
Maple Syrup Urine Disease? Would you expect your doctor or pharmacist to provide
much information about bullous pemphigoid, a rare, autoimmune, chronic skin
disorder that involves blistering?

We tend to underestimate the overall impact of these illnesses and conditions,
Ms. Gaetz-Faubert adds. "There are about 6,000 rare disorders [defined as
affecting fewer than one in 20,000 people]. Each individual disorder may only
have an impact on a small number of people but, taken together, they affect
about three million Canadians."

She herself has Ehlers Danlos Syndrome, a connective-tissue disease that causes
fatigue, pain and poor immune functioning. She sought help for her symptoms for
29 years before receiving a proper diagnosis from a geneticist at the University
of Alberta.

Ms. Gaetz-Faubert's situation illustrates the first major obstacle faced by a
person with a rare disorder: getting a proper diagnosis. According to one U.S.
survey, it can take up to five years for patients with rare diseases to be
correctly diagnosed. Even then, appropriate care and treatment are often delayed
until specialized clinical programs and professionals are tracked down.

Accurate information is key to getting appropriate referrals, avoiding
unnecessary tests and receiving proper, timely treatment. That's why
rare-disease patients often become experts - by necessity - on their own
situation.

Fortunately for today's health consumer, the Internet offers a vast amount of
health information, including these helpful Web sites on rare disorders:

Canadian Organization for Rare Disorders (www.cord.ca/) - With a database of
about 150 patient-support groups and disease-specific agencies across Canada,
CORD can link you with others who share your health concerns. These groups
typically supply pamphlets and brochures about the disorder, as well as regular
newsletters that provide information about local support groups, fundraising and
educational events, research advances and interviews with specialists.

National Organization for Rare Disorders, Inc. (www.rarediseases.org/) - This
U.S. federation of more than 140 voluntary health organizations offers extensive
information, including three searchable databases - for 1,100 rare diseases, for
more than 1,200 organizations, and for 900 so-called orphan drugs. Links to
Canadian resources are included.

Office of Rare Diseases (http://raredisease.info.nih.gov/ord/) - The U.S.
National Institutes of Health provide this Web site, which features information
on 6,000 rare diseases, current research, genetics information and support
groups.

Rare Genetic Diseases in Children
(http://mcrcr2.med.nyu.edu/murphp01/homenew.htm) - A directory of Web sites from
organizations and individuals on genetic diseases or disease families.

IODE Genetics Resource Centre, based at the London Health Science Centre in
London, Ont., provides free information for consumers and doctors on genetically
based diseases (which account for the majority of rare disorders). The centre
also maintains a directory of genetic-related support groups in Canada.Call
1-800-243-8416 Monday to Thursday, 8:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.


Reprinted from Health News, the medical letter of the University of Toronto
Faculty of Medicine. For information, call (416) 324-9191

Why some people are medically disenfranchised

   Unlike diseases that strike large numbers of people, those that affect just a
tiny minority are poorly funded when it comes to research, new drug development
and genetic testing.
Research: Funding is hard to obtain because money generally flows to study
diseases with a greater impact on public health. Also, it's complicated to
organize a randomized, controlled trial for a rare condition because the people
being studied are often scattered over a wide geographical area.

"An estimated 20 million Americans with more than 5,000 rare disorders find
themselves medically disenfranchised, and falling through the cracks of the
health-care system, because their afflictions are not identified as major
public-health threats warranting targeted research efforts," writes Abbey
Meyers, executive director of the U.S. National Organization for Rare Disorders.

However, new computer technology is making it easier to recruit patients for
studies of rare diseases. Recently, doctors and computer experts at the Mayo
Medical School Clinic and Foundation in Rochester, Minn., developed a
computer-based disease-tracking system that can identify all patients with a
particular disease and enter their information into a secure, central database.

Although the system was specifically developed to study Mayo Clinic patients
with cholangiocarcinoma, a rare cancer of the bile ducts, the researchers say
the software could be applied more broadly to facilitate clinical trials of rare
disorders.
Drugs: Pharmaceutical companies are unlikely to focus on rare diseases when
developing new drugs because of the small number of patients and limited
potential for profit.

To address this problem, the U.S. government passed the Orphan Drug Act in 1983.
It provides federal subsidies to encourage pharmaceutical companies to develop
drugs that otherwise wouldn't be commercially viable. Similar programs exist in
Japan and Europe, but not Canada, although the policy is under review, according
to Health Canada.
Genetic therapies: As the genes for rare disorders are discovered, more affected
families will seek testing. However, as with drugs, genetic tests and therapies
for rare diseases are often scientifically possible but not commercially viable.

"The pharmaceutical industry is unlikely to see profit potential in supplying a
small patient population, especially when only a single injection may be needed
over a lifetime to correct the genetic defect," says a 1999 editorial in Nature
Genetics.

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustration

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2000 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              378 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                    The News

                             March 31, 2017 Friday

Campaigners are right to request delay in rule change

LENGTH: 338  words


We appreciate that no government department has an unlimited budget. In fact
it's quite the opposite - for the last seven years the emphasis has been on
cost-cutting, not spending.

But even so, we are deeply troubled by the case of Maddison Crockford-Reid,
which we report today.

Maddi has a rare - in fact an ultra-rare -condition that affects only a handful
of people in the country. Sanfilippo syndrome, a condition that means the
sufferer's body cannot process sugar molecules properly, is incurable.

However, research is taking place which, one hopes, will shed light on the
syndrome and lead to ways of mitigating it. However, new rules brought in by the
National Institute of Clinical Excellence, which issues guidelines on which
treatments should be available on the NHS, has revealed it is tightening its
criteria for funding drugs for rare diseases. With little chance of funding for
any drug on the horizon, the chance of the trial that Maddi is participating in
being renewed drops - and so does, therefore, any chance of a cure.

While we understand the pressures on budgets, this is a brutal way indeed to go
about it.

The news was revealed by Nice this month, and the change of funding comes into
effect tomorrow. While there was a consultation into it, the swift
implementation of this change of tack means Maddi's family - like no, doubt,
hundreds across the country - have not had much chance to rally against it.

It seems this has not been sufficiently tested. For example, the driver behind
the change is the cost per quality adjusted life year' - a mechanism that
naturally discriminates against those with rare diseases as there are fewer
people who may benefit, so costs are naturally higher. It does not seem to take
into account where current research is, and whether it is worth encouraging.
Calls for a pause' in the change are well judged - there are hard decisions to
be made in health funding at all levels, but these should not equate to pulling
the rug from under people's feet in cost-cutting drives.

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: JPNS


                       Copyright 2017 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved


                              379 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          The Cairns Post (Australia)

                          February 26, 2014 Wednesday
                                1 - MAIN Edition

A mother's miracle Life-saving drug offers lifeline

BYLINE: BIANCA KEEGAN bianca.keegan@news.com.au

SECTION: Pg. 12

LENGTH: 357  words


CAIRNS woman Debbie Basham was faced with spending the rest of her life on
dialysis but a miracle drug has become the mother's lifeline.

A decade ago Ms Basham had surgery to remove her gall bladder but months later
she was diagnosed with acute renal failure and a life-threatening disease known
as atypical haemolytic uraemic syndrome.

``Two weeks post-diagnosis I was undergoing three hours of plasma exchange
followed by four-hour dialysis and blood transfusion treatment every day,'' she
said.

``I became so sick and my kidneys were continuing to fail.''

The syndrome, which affects kidney function, is what doctors call an ultra-rare
disease as it affects just two in one million Australians.

``A nurse was the first person to discuss the disease with me,'' the Bayview
Heights resident said.

``It was only after speaking to her that I realised my life had completely
changed and I would most likely spend the rest of my life as a dialysis patient.

``I was devastated.''

More than a year later she was given a kidney transplant from her brother but in
2007 the organ failed.

Now, at 52 years of age, Ms Basham spends five days a week on dialysis and is
injected with a drug called Soliris - the only treatment available for syndrome
patients. The drug underwent clinical trials in the US and UK to halt the
disease's progression.

While the treatment is approved by the Therapeutic Goods Administration the drug
is not funded through the Federal Government's Life Saving Drugs Program.

``It's ridiculous that there is a treatment available in Australia . . . that is
life-transforming yet we can't have access to it,'' Ms Basham said.

``Without Soliris, my doctor has informed me that a person can live on a
dialysis machine for an average of five years.

``That scares the hell out of me.''

Using the treatment means Ms Basham is eligible for a new kidney. The Life
Saving Drugs Program was set up to subsidise expensive drugs for rare diseases
and currently funds 10 drugs to treat seven diseases.

The nation's Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory Committee will advise Health
Minister Peter Dutton next month on whether to include the drug under the
program.

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CCP


                   Copyright 2014 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              380 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                       Weekly Times Messenger (Australia)

                            March 3, 2010 Wednesday
                               1 - FIRST Edition

Rare syndrome needs support

BYLINE: By DUANE SCHULTZ

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 196 words


WHEN Peta Carlton's son Zachary was diagnosed with an incredibly rare disease,
Kabuki Syndrome, the mum of four didn't know where to get help.

``When he was diagnosed there was no Australian support system at all,'' she
said.

``I just wanted some information.''

So Mrs Carlton and her husband Adrian, established Supporting Australian Kids
with Kabuki Syndrome (SAKKS) to provide support for other families affected by
the disease.

Kabuki Syndrome, which occurs once in every 32,000 births worldwide, can affect
the major organs and children diagnosed with it often have intellectual
disabilities.

Her son Zac, 12, spent the first year of his life in hospital undergoing
operations to correct problems with his heart.

Mrs Carlton says her biggest struggle in running the foundation was fundraising
until a call last year from Lindy Bakker, from the Easy Riders Motorcycle Club
(EMC).

Ms Bakker and her friends from EMC run fundraisers across Adelaide to help
SAKKS.

``We just wanted to help a charity - I went on the internet to have a look at
some and was blown away by Peta's story,'' Ms Bakker says.

SAKKS currently helps 60 families Australia-wide.

m To donate to SAKKS, phone 8264 0209.

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MWT


                   Copyright 2010 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              381 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          Leader Messenger (Australia)

                            March 3, 2010 Wednesday
                               1 - FIRST Edition

Rare syndrome needs support

BYLINE: By DUANE SCHULTZ

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 201 words


WHEN Peta Carlton's son Zachary was diagnosed with an incredibly rare disease,
Kabuki Syndrome, the mum of four didn't know where to get help.

``When he was diagnosed there was no Australian support system at all,'' she
said.

``I just wanted some information.''

So Mrs Carlton and her husband Adrian, of Vista, established Supporting
Australian Kids with Kabuki Syndrome (SAKKS) to provide support for other
families affected by the disease.

Kabuki Syndrome, which occurs once in every 32,000 births worldwide, can affect
the major organs and children diagnosed with it often have intellectual
disabilities.

Her son Zac, 12, spent the first year of his life in hospital undergoing
operations to correct problems with his heart.

Mrs Carlton says her biggest struggle in running the foundation was fundraising
until a call last year from Lindy Bakker, from the Easy Riders Motorcycle Club.

Ms Bakker, of Elizabeth North, and her friends from EMC run fundraisers across
Adelaide to help SAKKS.

``We just wanted to help a charity - I went on the internet to have a look at
some and was blown away by Peta's story,'' Ms Bakker says.

SAKKS currently helps 60 families Australia-wide.

* To donate to SAKKS, phone 8264 0209.

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MLD


                   Copyright 2010 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              382 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                       News Review Messenger (Australia)

                            March 3, 2010 Wednesday
                                1 - ONE Edition

Rare syndrome needs support

BYLINE: By Duane Schultz

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 201 words


WHEN Peta Carlton's son Zachary was diagnosed with an incredibly rare disease,
Kabuki Syndrome, the mum of four didn't know where to get help.

``When he was diagnosed there was no Australian support system at all,'' she
said.

``I just wanted some information.''

So Mrs Carlton and her husband Adrian, of Vista, established Supporting
Australian Kids with Kabuki Syndrome (SAKKS) to provide support for other
families affected by the disease.

Kabuki Syndrome, which occurs once in every 32,000 births worldwide, can affect
the major organs and children diagnosed with it often have intellectual
disabilities.

Her son Zac, 12, spent the first year of his life in hospital undergoing
operations to correct problems with his heart.

Mrs Carlton says her biggest struggle in running the foundation was fundraising
until a call last year from Lindy Bakker, from the Easy Riders Motorcycle Club.

Ms Bakker, of Elizabeth North, and her friends from EMC run fundraisers across
Adelaide to help SAKKS.

``We just wanted to help a charity - I went on the internet to have a look at
some and was blown away by Peta's story,'' Ms Bakker says.

SAKKS currently helps 60 families Australia-wide.

* To donate to SAKKS, phone 8264 0209.

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MNR


                   Copyright 2010 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              383 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                               The Daily Monitor

                            October 13, 2013 Sunday

One woman's pain of living with Parkinson's disease for 12 years

BYLINE: Issa Aliga & Gertrude Mutyaba -1

LENGTH: 528  words


Matilda Nakkazi, 53, is a mother of 10. She lives in Ggangu, in Makindye Sub
County in Wakiso District. For the past 12 years, however, she has been battling
Parkinson's disease, a neurological syndrome which characterised by constant
shaking of the thumbs and fingers, and constant rigid muscles. It is a disorder
of the central nervous system, and this disease normally affects people who are
over the age of 50. Nakkazi says she experiences persistent shaking, rigidity,
slowness of movement and difficulty with walking.

Matilda Nakkazi, 53, is a mother of 10. She lives in Ggangu, in Makindye Sub
County in Wakiso District.

For the past 12 years, however, she has been battling Parkinson's disease, a
neurological syndrome which characterised by constant shaking of the thumbs and
fingers, and constant rigid muscles.

It is a disorder of the central nervous system, and this disease normally
affects people who are over the age of 50. Nakkazi says she experiences
persistent shaking, rigidity, slowness of movement and difficulty with walking.

Before a diagnosis was carried out at Mulago hospital, Nakkazi thought she had
been bewitched since doctors had initially failed to diagnose her condition.
"Before I came to Mulago hospital, I was using herbal medicine which did not
work. Now I have got some relief,"explains Nakkazi. She is currently undergoing
palliative care, which she says has relieved her of pain.

Dr Simon Peter Eyoku from Mulago hospital explains that Parkinson's disease is a
rare disease whose specific cause is not exactly known, although a few cases
have been attributed to genetic factors. In Uganda, because it is a rare
disease, it is not known how many people suffer from the condition.

Besides genetics, it is said that environmental factors also play a role in the
development of Parkinson's.

Dr Eyoku reveals that although there is no cure for Parkinson's disease,
medications, surgery and palliative care can offer relief from some of the
symptoms that are commonly associated with the condition.

Levodopa drugFor some patients, a drug called Levodopa can be used to manage
symptoms, and in Uganda, it has so far been the most common drug used. Dr Eyoku
adds that surgery is no longer commonly used in managing Parkinson's disease.

PreventionDr Eyoku however explains that Parkinson's disease can be prevented if
the affected persons drink caffeine, commonly found it coffee, tea and cola.
Green tea also may reduce the risk of developing Parkinson's disease.

Dr Eyoku further explains that consuming foods rich in flavonoids, such as
berries, apples, orange juice and red wine are also known to reduce the risk of
developing Parkinson's disease by 35 per cent.

Research has also linked the development of Parkinson's disease reduced
oestrogen levels.

This may explain why menopausal women who do not take hormone replacement
therapy are more likely to develop Parkinson's disease.

Nakkazi is currently receiving treatment at Mulago hospital, and says she has
kept a strong faith in God, and believes that one day she will be healed of her
condition.

For now she engages in regular exercise routines to keep fit and healthy.

editorial@ug.nationmedia.com

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1148


                       Copyright 2013 Nation Media Group
                 Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.Syndigate.info
                              All Rights Reserved


                              384 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               September 10, 2002 Tuesday Five Star Lift Edition

WU JOINS IN GENE THERAPY PROJECT THAT CURES DOGS OF RARE DISEASE;
 IN HUMANS, THE SYNDROME CAUSES STUNTED GROWTH, MENTAL RETARDATION

BYLINE: Tina Hesman Of The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: NEWS ; Pg. A5

LENGTH: 489 words


Scientists from Washington University and the University of Pennsylvania have
used gene therapy in dogs to cure a rare genetic disease that affects multiple
body organs.

The researchers, led by Katherine Parker Ponder at Washington University and
Mark E. Haskins of the University of Pennsylvania, used gene therapy to treat
seven dogs with a disorder known as MPS VII. In humans, the disease is called
Sly syndrome - named for Dr. William Sly, a doctor at St. Louis University who
first diagnosed the disease in 1973.

Other researchers have used gene therapy in dogs to target diseases that affect
a single body function, such as vision or blood clotting, but the 17-month study
published today in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences is the
first to report successful treatment for a disease that affects many different
organs, Haskins said.

Sly syndrome is a disease caused by a lack of the enzyme beta-glucuronidase.
Without the enzyme, the body can not break down certain sugar molecules, causing
the sugars to build up in storage compartments, called lysosomes, within cells.
Overstuffing the storage compartments damages cells and leads to defects in
almost every organ system in the body, especially the bones, eyes, heart valves
and liver. People with the disease have stunted growth, mental retardation and
trouble moving. They usually die in childhood. The disease affects about one in
27,000 babies born in the United States.

Although rare, the disease is a good model for treating other storage diseases,
such as Tay-Sachs disease, Sly said.

Ponder and other colleagues first used gene therapy to treat mice with the MPS
VII disease. The researchers then turned to the dogs to see if such therapies
might be useful to treat people.

"We were interested in a large animal model because it's getting to the point
where anybody can cure a mouse," Ponder said. But researchers have rarely been
able to use the rodent cures to treat larger animals or people, she said.

Ponder and her co-workers replaced genes in a retrovirus with a healthy copy of
the gene for the beta-glucuronidase enzyme.

The scientists then injected newborn puppies affected with the MPS VII disease
with the engineered retrovirus. The scientists later found liver cells in the
dogs producing the beta-glucuronidase enzyme, proof that the gene therapy had
worked. The liver cells made enough of the enzyme to correct the disease
throughout the body.

The puppies gained weight almost normally and were able to walk and run. The
dogs didn't develop the serious heart and eye problems normally found in dogs
with the disease.

The technique could be used to cure many other lysosomal storage diseases, which
affect about one of every 7,000 babies born, Sly said. It also may be useful in
developing gene therapy for other enzyme deficiencies.

The therapy could be ready for human use in five to 10 years, Ponder predicted.

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: Reporter Tina Hesman: E-mail: thesman@post-dispatch.com Phone:
314-340-8325

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              385 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                     High Point Enterprise (North Carolina)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                            February 7, 2016 Sunday

Local woman uses limited days to spread awareness of rare disease

BYLINE: Jimmy Tomlin, The High Point Enterprise, N.C.

SECTION: LIFESTYLE

LENGTH: 866 words


Feb. 07--HIGH POINT -- The morning she was diagnosed with a rare terminal
illness, Ann Current didn't have room for fear -- she was too filled with
relief.

"That was the feeling at that moment -- total relief -- knowing that I'm not
crazy," the 67-year-old High Point woman recalls. "I didn't really think I was
crazy, but there were times I thought I might be, so it was such a relief to
finally get the right diagnosis. I'd been down so many roads and never ended up
with an answer -- or at least not an answer that was correct."

For at least five years, Current had been seeking a diagnosis for her unusual,
ever-growing menagerie of symptoms: Tremors. Restless leg syndrome. Shortness of
breath. Weakness. Stiffness. Raspy voice.

She'd been to countless doctors and received a wide range of diagnoses --
everything from essential tremor and Parkinson's disease to fibromyalgia and
asthma -- none of which turned out to be accurate.

"I was really getting frustrated," Current, a retired schoolteacher, says in a
soft, weak voice. "I was even told by one doctor that it was all in my head."

So that morning in May 2012, when a neurologist at UNC Hospitals in Chapel Hill
looked Current in the eye and told her she had multiple system atrophy, or MSA,
she and her husband Mike couldn't help but be relieved, despite the little-known
disease's grim prognosis.

"She said, 'It's rare, but I'm 95-percent sure you have it,'" Current says. "She
started telling us about MSA, and as she talked, Mike and I just looked at each
other and we knew she was right. It sounded just like what I had experienced.
And then she said, 'I have to tell you that it's probably what will kill you,
because it's fatal -- there's no cure and there's no treatment.'"

According to the MSA Coalition -- a nonprofit organization that helps fund MSA
research and educates patients and caregivers -- MSA is "a rare, degenerative
neurologic condition that affects both men and women, usually starting in the
50s or early 60s. MSA is considered a type of parkinsonism but with more
widespread effects on the brain and body."

First identified in 1962, the condition was initially named Shy-Drager syndrome
for two doctors who reported patients exhibiting "a combination of
Parkinson-like movement disorders and problems with the autonomic, or
body-regulating division of the nervous system," the MSA Coalition states.

Until she was officially diagnosed, Current had never heard of MSA. In five
years' worth of medical appointments -- countless physical exams, diagnostic
tests, confident diagnoses, medical opinions and educated guesses -- MSA was
never mentioned.

"There are doctors here who don't know about it," she says. "The neurologist I
had here in town still didn't believe it when I told him about my diagnosis."

Current's husband, Mike, sighs and nods his head in agreement.

"There's a lot of educating to be done," he says.

And therein lies Current's rationale for sharing her story. Today, some 3 1/2
years after her MSA diagnosis, Current senses the end may be near. She was given
six to eight months to live ... 10 months ago. Hospice of the Piedmont has been
called in to assist with her end-of-life care.

But she's still here, and she believes God has her here for a reason.

"Because of what I went through, I don't want others to have to go through
that," Current says. "They talk about spreading awareness of MSA, and it's got
to be done by people who know about it. There's not a lot I can do, but I can
help with that, so that's what I made my mission."

It's an uphill battle, Current knows, because of the rareness of MSA. She's
aware of only a small number of cases in North Carolina, and she doesn't know of
any others in the Triad. The only celebrity she's heard of who was diagnosed
with MSA was celebrity chef Kerry Simon, who died of the disease in September.

Current does what she can, though. The year after her diagnosis, she posted
something on Facebook every day in March -- MSA Awareness Month -- to educate
her friends about the disease. She did something similar the next year.

Meanwhile, Current's family members have made MSA awareness their mission, too.
Her daughter, Amy Nissen of High Point, ran a 5K to raise money for MSA research
and coordinated another fundraiser on Facebook. Her oldest grandson, Caleb
Hammond, spearheaded a fundraiser for MSA research at his school, Westchester
Country Day.

And all of her immediate family members have purple MSA T-shirts in support of
"Honey Gran," the name Current's nine grandchildren call her.

Friends have been extremely supportive, and Current also enjoys weekly visits
from a "Stephen minister," who helps minister to her spiritual needs. They all
say Current has been an inspiration to them.

"Ann has an extremely strong faith -- she's always had that -- and that's going
to carry her through," says longtime friend Beverly Biel.

Current agrees, despite her declining health.

"I've had so many miracles in my life," she says, "I can't be anything but
grateful."

jtomlin@hpenews.com -- 888-3579

___ (c)2016 The High Point Enterprise (High Point, N.C.) Visit The High Point
Enterprise (High Point, N.C.) at www.hpenews.com Distributed by Tribune Content
Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20160207-HP-Local-woman-uses-limited-days-to-spread-awareness-of-
rare-disease-0207-20160207

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: HP


                      Copyright 2016 High Point Enterprise


                              386 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                        July 14, 2014 Monday 6:30 AM EST

PatientCrossroads Fuels Development of New National Clinical Research Network

LENGTH: 828  words


July 14 -- PatientCrossroads issued the following news release:


PatientCrossroads, pioneer of the groundbreaking CONNECT patient registry
platform, announced that three PatientCrossroads-based patient
registries-DuchenneConnect, for Duchenne and Becker muscular dystrophies; the
Phelan-McDermid Syndrome International Registry; and the NephCure Kidney
Network, for primary Nephrotic Syndrome-have been awarded contracts by the
Patient-Centered Outcomes Research Institute (PCORI) as part of the creation of
a new health data network called PCORnet: the National Patient-Centered Clinical
Research Network.



PCORI has invested more than $100 million to support 29 individual health data
networks that will comprise PCORnet, a large, national network for conducting
more efficient clinical outcomes research that addresses questions of greatest
concern to patients and those who care for them.

"PatientCrossroads' vision aligns perfectly with PCORnet, which is intended to
provide patients, families and healthcare providers with key information
required to make crucial decisions about which preventive, diagnostic or
treatment approach is best suited to patients' needs and circumstances," said
Kyle Brown, founder of PatientCrossroads. "Our three clients funded to help make
PCORnet a reality are all leveraging PatientCrossroads-based registries to meet
the goals of their proposals."

DuchenneConnect, a program of Parent Project Muscular Dystrophy (PPMD), has been
awarded $970,000 by PCORI. DuchenneConnect is an established patient-report
registry with seven years of experience collecting longitudinal patient-reported
data that is used by industry, clinical and academic researchers working on
advances in the rare diseases of Duchenne and Becker muscular dystrophy.

"DuchenneConnect has become a model for rare-disease registries, and we look
forward to the benefits for our community, and for the nation, from PCORI's
PCORnet effort," said Holly Peay, vice president of education and outreach for
PPMD and DuchenneConnect Principal Investigator, "Many of DuchenneConnect's
achievements through this program will become available to other disease
registries under the PatientCrossroads model, thereby extending the reach of
PCORnet to a broader range of patient networks.

The Phelan-McDermid Syndrome Foundation will establish the Phelan-McDermid
Syndrome Data Network (PMS_DN) in partnership with researchers at Harvard
Medical School's Center for Biomedical Informatics. Their $950,000 award from
PCORI will expand the utility of the existing patient registry by integrating
family-reported information with concepts generated from electronic health
records of patients affected by Phelan-McDermid Syndrome, in addition to other
medical reports, in a unified data system. The PMS_DN will enable researcher
access to de-identified family information in a way that supports never-before
available hypothesis generation and testing for Phelan-McDermid Syndrome and
expedites research into meaningful health outcomes for the Phlelan-McDermid
Syndrome community.

"Involvement in PCORnet as a Patient-Powered Research Network has provided our
Foundation an unprecedented platform to enrich data about our patient population
and critical new collaborations in the promotion of patient and family
leadership in research," said Megan O'Boyle, Principal Investigator for the
PMS_DN at the Phelan-McDermid Syndrome Foundation. "With PCORI and our partners
at Harvard Medical School, we will elevate the value of patient and family
reported data by weaving it together with clinical and genomics data to advance
a 'whole person, whole family, whole community' research agenda for
Phelan-McDermid Syndrome and we expect, related conditions."

The NephCure Kidney Network, a Patient-Powered Research Network co-developed by
Arbor Research, the University of Michigan and the NephCure Foundation, received
nearly $650,000 from PCORI. The NephCure Foundation is the only organization
committed exclusively to supporting research and seeking the cause of the
potentially debilitating kidney diseases collectively known as Primary Nephrotic
Syndrome (NS), which includes Focal Segmental Glomerulosclerosis (FSGS), Minimal
Change Disease (MCD) and Membranous Nephropathy (MN). The NephCure Kidney
Network will enable important clinical and patient-reported data on NS to be
contributed, under patient control, to a centralized repository.

"As a secure data network, PCORnet is designed to provide access to a large
amount of diverse and relevant health information that can focus research on
questions and outcomes especially useful to patients and those who care for
them," said Marilyn Hailperin, Research Director for the NephCure Foundation.
"PCORI's support will enable us to expand and enhance our NephCure Kidney
Network to facilitate the rapid development and execution of comparative
effectiveness research to benefit patents with Primary Nephrotic Syndrome.

Source: PatientCrossroads

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2014 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              387 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                    Alberni Valley Times (British Columbia)

                            February 4, 2002 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Rare diseases pose some very troubling questions

BYLINE: Alberni Valley Times

SECTION: HEALTH; Pg. B3

LENGTH: 1068  words

DATELINE: OTTAWA


OTTAWA - Watching her 10-year-old son David run around the back yard on a warm
day last June, Chantal Lapointe noticed something odd: His right leg seemed
larger than his left.

Concerned, she took him to the doctor, who immediately suspected cancer, but a
series of ultrasounds and bone scans revealed the problem in his leg was
something else, something called Desmoid Tumours. "I was relieved that it was
not cancer - but I didn't know anything about Desmoid," she says. "I didn't know
what it meant for him."

Chantal Lapointe is now on the most desperate of searches.

Her son's rare disorder has inflated his right leg with aggressive, but benign,
tumours that can't be removed with surgery. Unless their growth is controlled,
the leg may have to be amputated.

Lapointe, who has taken a year off from her teaching career to scour the
Internet for potential treatments, has spent more than $20,000 in pursuit of
experimental therapies in the U.S. and Canada. But she has discovered there's no
drug designed for David.

"It's a rare disease: There is nothing for it. You can try breast cancer
therapy, leukemia therapy, but there's nothing for this," says Lapointe, who
lives in Ruscom Station, near Windsor.

David is now taking Interferon, a drug designed to combat cancer, and early
signs suggest the drug has slowed the growth of his tumours. "It's not growing,
so I can breathe a little bit today," says Lapointe. "But tomorrow, I don't
know."

Such is the plight of those with rare or "orphan" diseases.

By definition, orphan diseases affect fewer than one in 20,000 people. They
often have mysterious names, Alpha-1 and XLH, or names that defy memory -
Wegener's Granulomatosis and Klippel-Trenaunay Syndrome. But there are also
familiar names among the orphans, diseases known for their tragedies and
telethons: cystic fibrosis, muscular dystrophy and hemophilia. In all, more than
6,000 orphan diseases have been identified and as many as three million
Canadians now suffer from one.

Yet most people with orphan diseases are treated only with horribly blunt
instruments. The dearth of drug treatments for them is a reflection of basic
economics. The profit-driven pharmaceutical industry has little incentive to
pour research money into discoveries that will not return big dividends. Small
patient populations hold out little potential reward.

Recognizing that fact, the United States, the European Union, Japan, Singapore
and Australia all have orphan drug legislation that allocates public money and
offers government incentives to foster research into orphan diseases and their
treatment.

But in Canada, the federal government has so far refused to introduce
legislation to encourage orphan drug research or fund it with public money.

Orphan disease sufferers in Canada, brought together through the Internet, are
demanding change.

"We need to be recognized," says Maureen Gaetz-Faubert, founder of the Canadian
Organization for Rare Diseases (CORD), a lobby and support group that operates
out of her home in Lethbridge, Alta. "Until there's that awareness and
commitment by the federal government, it will be difficult for much to happen in
terms of gathering support in the private sector."

CORD wants Health Minister Anne McLellan to direct research money into orphan
diseases, improve access to new drugs and, when necessary, make those drugs more
affordable.

Many of the new drugs designed to treat rare diseases are astronomically
expensive. Cerezyme, a drug used to treat Gaucher's Disease, costs $300,000 a
year, while Prolastin, a drug used in the treatment of Alpha-1, can cost $40,000
to $50,000 a year. Gaetz-Faubert contends these drugs comprise basic health care
for people with rare diseases - and that more of them need to be subsidized.
There's now a hodgepodge of provincial drug insurance coverage that vexes many
orphan disease sufferers.

"This is one of the real frustrations for a lot of us," says Sue Garrison, 61,
of Ottawa, who suffers from Alpha-1 and has recently been prescribed Prolastin.
"In Ontario, unless you have a private medical plan, you have to pay for it
(Prolastin) out of your own pocket." Garrison's private insurance will cover
most of her drug cost, but she still faces an annual bill of $7,000.

The issues raise a host of troubling moral questions in a country that prides
itself on universal health coverage. Are the needs of orphan disease sufferers
being met in Canada? Is it enough for Canada to piggyback on U.S. efforts to
produce new drugs for those with orphan diseases? And how much should we pay for
drugs to treat the 100 Canadians who suffer from Gaucher's Disease or the
thousands who suffer from Alpha-1?

"I don't think our government realizes there are three million Canadians
affected by rare disorders," says Gaetz-Faubert, who suffers from a rare disease
known as Ehlers-Danlos Syndrome. "As a result, they don't believe it's a high
priority. They think we don't need a policy or funding because of that."

Drugs designed to treat orphan diseases are dwarfed by what's available on
pharmacy shelves for common afflictions. Arthritis patients have at least 18
medications to choose from to treat their pain and inflammation. People with
high cholesterol can turn to Pravachol, Zocor, Lipitor and Mevacor, among many
others. Those suffering depression can chose from Prozac, Zoloft or Paxil. There
are myriad drugs to treat hair loss, hay fever and impotence because many
millions of people suffer from such problems, which although troublesome, are
not fatal.

Drug companies in Canada last year spent $895 million on research and
development, but almost all of it went into potential blockbusters - drugs that
appeal to large populations. It is essential corporate mathematics: Inventing
another drug to treat high cholesterol is going to be tremendously more
profitable than the first drug to treat Desmoid Tumours or XLH, a genetic
disease that impairs the body's ability to make and maintain bone.

For its part, the federal government will spend $478 million on medical research
this year through the Canadian Institutes of Health Research (CIHR). Most of
that money will go toward breast cancer, AIDs and heart disease research. It's
impossible to determine how much of that will go toward orphan diseases because
no money is committed specifically to them.

CIHR spokeswoman Faye Kert said there are no quotas for cancer, heart disease or
orphan diseases.

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2002 Alberni Valley Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              388 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                              Wharfedale Observer

                            November 21, 2014 Friday

Parents battling for care to be extended

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 400 words


OTLEY parents are desperately seeking help to secure funding for a wonder drug
that is prolonging their son's life.

Whartons Primary School pupil Sam Brown, six, suffers from an extremely rare,
inherited genetic disease called Morquio Syndrome.

The condition, which only affects one in every 250,000 people in the UK, causes
progressive physical disability and shortness of stature, and is significantly
life limiting.

For the past two and a half years Sam, whose two-year-old brother Alex is
unaffected by the disorder, has spent a day a week at Manchester to receive a
clinical trial of Vimizim.

His parents, Katy and Simon, say the treatment - which can slow or halt the
disease's progression - has made a massive difference.

But the drug is not yet funded by the NHS, whose Clinical Priorities Advisory
Group will decide in mid-December whether or not to back it - and the signs are
not looking good.

Katy said: "The clinical trial has benefited Sam hugely.

"But every indication we have been given thus far is that the funding will not
be approved by NHS England, which means his treatment would stop and the disease
would be allowed to progress.

"This is unthinkable.

"In addition, it has emerged that the scorecard system used by NHS England to
appraise drugs for funding actively discriminates against very rare diseases.

"There are only 88 people in the UK suffering from Morquio Syndrome and, as it
stands, this means it will be impossible for them to access any kind of
treatment."

She is urging everyone to get behind an online petition, which sports a
photograph of Sam, that has been started by the MPS Society to demand that the
NHS provides treatment for people with very rare conditions.

She said: "Sam has a very limited time frame for the right decision to be made -
four weeks.

"He has no idea of the silent path Morquio Syndrome has set for his future. With
Vimizim, he may never need to know.

"When Sam grows up, he wants to be a fireman, or a scientist. Being in a
wheelchair does not feature in his future plans.

"He did not choose to be born with a very rare disease. Please help him and
other children not have to suffer the consequences."

Otley's MP Greg Mulholland (Lib Dem, Leeds North West) is also working with the
family and other MPs to lobby for the funding to be approved.

The petition, which can be viewed at mpssociety.org.uk, has attracted more than
6,000 signatures in just one week.

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2014 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              389 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                       St. John's Telegram (Newfoundland)

                            March 24, 2005 Thursday

Ottawa weighing costs of treating rare disease

BYLINE: Eaves, Sutton, Canwest News Service

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 616  words


Mackenzie Olsen is just one of dozens of rare disease patients in Canada who are
left without treatment, and perhaps a future, because the government has no
strategy for funding costly but potentially life-saving therapies.

Genetic disorder

The nine-year-old Alberta boy, who suffers from an unusual genetic disorder
called Hurler-Schele syndrome, must wait until at least July for Ottawa to
decide if it will pay for his $17,000 per week enzyme replacement therapy.

Mackenzie, a status Indian from the Siksika tribe in Alberta, can only afford
half-doses of the drug Aldurazyme since company-funded clinical trials finished
recently.

Eventually fatal

Hurler-Schele syndrome, caused by a lack of a certain enzyme called
aL-iduronidase, is eventually fatal, but first causes loss of sight, hearing and
speech, as well as swelling of organs such as the heart and lungs. It's
irreversible.

Mackenzie's parents can't fathom why their boy won't be covered for the
treatment when another child is receiving money from Health Canada for the same
drug to treat a different condition.

"We need help to keep our little boy alive," said his father, Raymond Amato.
"It's not only our son, there are other children out there suffering with this
same disease that are being cut off, if they haven't been cut off already. We
need help for all these children, not just our son."

When asked Wednesday if there's anything he'll do to help the boy, Health
Minister Ujjal Dosanjh said he's "not God" and the treatment must be assessed by
a common drug review before the government decides if it's cost-effective to
supply.

But this has outraged the boy's parents and the Assembly of First Nations who
want at least interim coverage for Olsen until the review is completed.

"The provinces do not provide coverage for First Nations and the federal
government refuses to cover the costs in this case," AFN Yukon regional chief
Rick O'Brien said Wednesday. "This little boy deserves a chance at life, cost
should not be a factor when it comes to somebody's life."

Mackenzie's treatment, which should be covered by the First Nations Inuit Health
Branch, is just one of several similar therapies caught up in the government's
new drug review process and unavailable to most patients in the interim.

Enzyme replacement therapy for Fabry's disease patients - called Fabrazyme - was
put through the review in the fall but rejected because it didn't meet
cost-effective standards. After an outpouring of opposition from patients, the
$300,000-a-year treatment was sent for a second review, expected to end in May.

"I think that is a scientific issue and that's not an issue that a politician
should be involved in," said Dosanjh. "If politicians start stepping in on
individual cases then I'll be asked to step in every day."

But in Alberta, the government has offered its 15 Fabry's patients a "bridging
program" to cover their treatment until a permanent funding decision is made.

"This is a national regulatory problem as well," said Alberta Health Minister
Iris Evans after making the announcement last week.

Rare disease specialist Dr. Joe Clarke at the Hospital for Sick Children says
the government's position calls into question one of the cornerstones of
Canada's health-care system - accessibility.

"It comes down to an equity issue. If you happen to be born with a rare disease,
you do not have the same access to new, groundbreaking treatments as people who
have more common diseases. And in fact, simply by being rare, you may not be
treated at all, ever," Clarke said.

A handful of his MPS I patients in Toronto stopped their Aldurazyme treatments
when clinical trials finished.

"It's a justice issue. I'd like to see a just solution."

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Mackenzie Olsen needs medication which can cost up to $17, 000 a week,
but it is not covered under health care.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2005 CanWest Interactive, a division of CanWest Global Communications
                                     Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              390 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                           December 26, 2006 Tuesday

A costly second chance for little Isaac;
With Ontario now funding an expensive new treatment, a two-year-old is
flourishing despite his rare disease, LISA PRIEST writes

BYLINE: LISA PRIEST

SECTION: NATIONAL NEWS; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 839 words

DATELINE: TORONTO


He's not even three years old, but the words pulse oximeter roll off Isaac
McFadyen's tongue, as if they are second nature. He knows the device well; it
clips onto his finger and measures the oxygen in his blood. It's one of several
checks done each hour he undergoes treatment for his rare disease.

But Isaac's life is not one of suffering. It is that of a preschooler thriving
after receiving one of the most expensive drugs in the world - Naglazyme - the
only treatment for Maroteaux-Lamy syndrome, an inherited metabolic disorder.

The bag of colourless medicine, not even a cupful, costs the public health-care
system $5,000 to $6,000 for each weekly treatment, something he will require, in
some form or another, for the rest of his life.

In the three months he has undergone enzyme replacement therapy, Isaac's parents
say they've witnessed dramatic physical changes. Isaac has grown two inches and
his belly, once rotund due to an enlarged spleen and liver, has shrunk by three
inches.

"For us, the idea that he has a chance at a future, is more than we ever had
before," Isaac's father, Andrew McFadyen, said.

During his 14th infusion in early December, Isaac, a high-spirited boy, rode a
plastic tricycle in the corridors of Toronto's Hospital for Sick Children, as
his mother, Ellen Buck-McFadyen hurried along with him, clutching the
intravenous pole that carried his medicine.

A few months ago, the future looked bleak for Isaac, who has
mucopolysaccharidosis type VI, or MPS VI for short, a disease so rare it's
estimated that only three to 10 Canadians have it.

In May, his family faced moving to England where the drug is funded by
government - at the cost of $300,000 to $1-million annually - or watch Isaac be
ravaged by the inherited metabolic disorder.

He had already suffered some of the ill effects of the disease: a piece of his
skull and a portion of vertebrae in his neck were removed after they began
compressing his spinal cord. His corneas were clouding, his forehead protruded
and he had an umbilical hernia.

"We were really close to moving," said Mr. McFadyen, who was eligible for
British citizenship through his Welsh mother. "We had our application filled out
and all set to go."

When Isaac's plight was profiled in The Globe and Mail in May as part of a
broader piece on the lack of an organ drug policy in Canada, the story drew
swift reaction, with the subject being raised twice in the Ontario Legislation
by the opposition.

In July, the provincial government decided to fund the drug for Isaac after a
clinical review by members of Ontario's inherited-metabolic-diseases program.

"This is not a cure but neither is insulin a cure for diabetes," said Joe
Clarke, senior associate scientist in the Hospital for Sick Children's Research
Institute, who has treated Isaac. "We're hoping that it will correct the
metabolic abnormalities sufficiently so that the disease won't progress."

In developed countries, there are an estimated 1,100 sufferers, virtually all of
whom will experience severe disability and shortened life spans. That's because
those with MPS VI are missing an enzyme called arylsulfatase B, needed to break
down carbohydrates known as glycosaminoglycans. The carbohydrate builds up in
the body's cells and affects multiple organs.

Signs of the disease include stunted growth, enlarged tonsils and adenoids that
cause breathing problems, poor mobility and dramatic changes in facial features,
including a flat nose and large head. In their teens, sufferers often require
heart-valve surgery.

"Isaac is the youngest patient I've ever seen with the condition, so we have to
consider him to be programmed to have more severe disease," Dr. Clarke said.
"The results we've achieved so far, I'm very, very happy with, ecstatic with
it."

Although the drug won't necessarily reverse the damage the disease has already
done, it will help halt its progression.

"If Isaac didn't get this drug, he was simply going to continue to progress
where there would be very little in the quality of life for him," said
Conservative health critic Elizabeth Witmer, who twice raised his plight in the
legislature.

She is concerned about Canada's lack of an orphan drug policy, as is Durhane
Wong-Rieger, president of the Canadian Organization for Rare Disorders.

"There is widespread agreement that we need to provide some treatment for rare
disorders," Dr. Wong-Rieger said. "But there's no agreement on how we're going
to provide the funding . . . There's some real urgency in terms of putting
together a process to evaluate these drugs."

Since Isaac began receiving treatment in September, his life has turned around.
The problems of today are much smaller than those of a few months ago: a traffic
snarl as they make the two-hour drive to the hospital from their home in
Campbellford or a puzzle piece that goes missing in the hospital playroom.

"It's such a huge relief," Ms. Buck-McFadyen said, holding her other son,
13-month-old Gabriel, at the hospital.

"We know how fortunate we are."

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustration

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2006 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              391 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                               Belfast Telegraph

                           November 14, 2013 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

The girl in 50 million;
Niamh Stirling might outwardly look just like any other typical teen, but she
has to deal with a rare illness which makes her... The schoolgirl, whose parents
come from Northern Ireland, suffers from Dubowitz syndrome. She is the only
known case in Ireland and one of just 148 worldwide. Paul Hopkins meets her ;
I've got used to it, there's always someone more ill than you'

BYLINE: Paul Hopkins

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 33,34,35

LENGTH: 1973 words


Niamh Stirling is like any 15-year-old Irish girl, bubbly and enthusiastic,
petite and pretty as a picture, large dark eyes and generous smile lighting up
when she walks into the room. Her bedroom, like most teenagers'', has scattered
posters of her favourite pop stars such as One Direction and Union J, her iPad
and iPhone are never far from hand, and she is a football season ticket holder.
But Niamh Stirling is not like any other 15-year-old. For one thing, the morning
of my first meeting with her, she failed to show. As dawn broke her mother
Imogen, a qualified psychiatric nurse and psychoanalyst originally from Newry,
Co Down, had hurriedly driven her to hospital with fears that the muscles
working her heart were erratic and that the pain that had kept her awake all
night were warning signs of a possible heart attack.

For another thing, Niamh Stirling is a girl in a million. Precisely, she is a
girl in 50,000,000, one of only 148 recorded people worldwide with Dubowitz
syndrome, the only known case on the island of Ireland. Niamh is the only child
of Imogen and Ken, also a psychiatric nurse from Ballymoney, Co Antrim. And both
parents carry the rare rogue gene. So rare is this gene that their chances of
meeting are almost incalculable. Dubowitz syndrome is a rare mutation in an
inherited gene, characterised by neurodevelopmental disorder, short stature, and
eczema. CONTINUED Sufferers are extremely prone to infections and have to
undergo numerous surgical procedures. To date Niamh has had 20 trips to theatre.
She also requires occupational therapy and physiotherapy on an ongoing basis,
neither of which is available to her locally due to cutbacks. The muscles in our
bodies are arranged in a particular pattern: in Niamh Stirling her muscles are
in a different pattern and her particular case of Dubowitz, which in many can
cover a broad spectrum, is primarily gastrointestinal, immunological and
neurological. She is a [Dublin Childrens' hospital] Crumlin 'peg' baby, with a
permanent tube in her tummy which feeds her food and her daily cocktail of 20
different medications. First discovered in 1965 by Victor Dubowitz, there are
only 148 recorded cases in the world, though some research puts the figure at
200. "I knew there was something up when I was pregnant,'' says Niamh's mother,
the youngest of three. Her father, James (Jimmy) Brady was a renowned professor
of law, in the field of equity, and was lecturer at UCD for half a lifetime. "I
never put on any weight," says Imogen. "The doctors kept telling me I was just
petite, that everything was fine.'' Everything wasn't fine and when Niamh came
into the world on a May day 15 years ago, she was five weeks premature and
weighed just 4lbs It was almost immediately obvious something was up: there was
talk of heart and breathing problems, lack of swallowing reflex and other
related neurological problems which had the medical profession at Dublin's
Coombe Hospital mystified.

Niamh was discharged from ICU at five days old. The doctors had identified a
heart murmur and they told Imogen and husband Ken to keep a close eye on her.
Any problems, they said, give her Calpol and the cardiologists would see her on
Monday. "That weekend Niamh stopped breathing,'' says Imogen. "I resuscitated
her, giving her mouth to mouth and she was taken by ambulance and to Dublin's
Crumlin children's hospital which was the beginning of the next 15 years.'' For
the first 18 months, Niamh was fed by a naso gastric tube. She then was operated
on to have a tube, or peg, put into her stomach. She never took a bottle,
because of her lack of swallow, and she had no sense of hunger. To ensure she
has enough to sustain her she is on a nightly drip-feed of 12 hours to pump
vital medicine into her system. A good night's sleep is Doctors were baffled: on
one occasion Niamh, at six months, was wheeled into the hospital amphitheatre
where 200 medical students were invited to discuss her condition.

Doctors had wildly different outlooks. At one stage, says Ken, one doctor said
to us, 'Leave her here, go home and forget about her'. It took a battery of
tests before their first and only child was identified as having Dubowitz when
aged 19 months. On another occasion a doctor said Niamh would never walk nor
talk. But Imogen and Ken never gave up, and Imogen laughingly says it was Ken -
the 'non-believer' - who said they should have their new baby baptised quickly,
just to "cover our options", says Ken. The Ulster couple met in London in the
mid-90s while working in a psychiatric hospital. "I called for assistance to
calm down a patient," says Ken. "I was literally sitting on the poor man when a
young Imogen walked into the room. It was love at first sight, and we were
engaged and married soon after.'' By age four their little girl had had 20 chest
infections, four bad bouts of pneumonia, two kidney infections, major surgery to
correct reflux, and five bilateral perforations of her ear drums which led to
huge problems with hearing, on top of problems with mobility and muscles and
joints. "She had 70% hearing loss,'' says Imogen, "which took time for the
doctors to diagnose and it was only, miraculously, after three operations to
insert grommets into her ears that she could hear fully. "By then she was, we
discovered, lip reading to compensate. As her pain threshold is so high she
hardly ever cried.'' Niamh Stirling needs lots of different types of special
medicines that are not available on the Republic's drug repayment scheme or
medical card: one such medicine, to alleviate haemorrhaging, is flown in monthly
from London, Says Imogen: "We have the £148 a month prescription cap but Niamh's
medicines cost about £2,500 a month, most of which are not listed under the drug
repayment scheme, and 13 years ago drips and syringes were removed from such
cover and so we had no choice but to apply for a medical card, without which I
told the hospital that I would have to take Niamh to hospital every night and
leave her there for her drip-feed, which she needed to stay alive." Faced with
such a scenario, Niamh was eventually given a medical card. "But, yet again,
this year the card has been denied her and Ken and I face what is months of
hell, filling out form after form with every minute financial detail. "What the
minister here fails to grasp is that this syndrome is for life. Niamh is not
going to wake up in the morning and suddenly be any different. "We are two
people working in public and community health because we believed in the public
service and that everyone should have access to equal health care. But that is
not what is happening in the current service, '' says Imogen, who with Ken
migrated to Dublin when she became pregnant. It's relentless and exhausting,
says Ken: "They do this on a regular basis, hoping to wear you down, that you'll
go away and they won't have to help you financially.''

This year Niamh has been granted much-needed home tutorials, up to seven hours a
week, but the Dublin Department of Education has said the Stirlings must find
the teacher themselves - it does not have the time nor resources to do so. By
this time Ken and I are interrupted when Niamh and her mum return home from the
hospital, where the doctors are happy to let this Crumlin Baby home for now
because of both parents' nursing background. Yearly Niamh faces yet new and
emerging problems related to her overall 'condition' - a word, she and her
parents deliberately chose to use. This last year she is suffering daily severe
migraine headaches - Ken is a sufferer too - and new allergies, and the
countless overnights in Crumlin never go away. "My friends text me, ' says
Niamh, "and say 'where are you, are you coming out?' They don't always know I
have had to go to hospital again.'' And such is the fickleness of youth that
such friends often move on to another confidante. Niamh is back there again a
week after our interview for another round of inserting Botox into her system to
compensate for her body temperature. It can be scorching hot and Niamh will
shiver. E qually the opposite can apply. The team at Crumlin will use this
opportunity to intervene in other areas of her body while she is under
anaesthetic for, like a lot of us, Niamh has a morbid fear of needles after 20
surgeries in her short life. "I hate them, '' she says. "I mean how could anyone
sit there and like having needles stuck in them all the time.

'' Once, when in Crumlin other sick children were screaming in pain and fear,
shouting at the needles probing them. Matter-of-factly, Niamh said to Imogen:
"Now, you know what we were trying to yell at you when we were babies and we
couldn't talk.'' She has a photographic memory and is an accomplished Irish
dancer, and has played in local amateur theatre. She is a good artist - "I want
to write children's books and illustrate them" - and loves football, up to last
year playing for the local girls team. She misses playing football but she had
to stop for fear a fall or knock would dislocate her doublejointed joint, part
of her dyspraxia - a movement and motor disorder. "I cannot play tennis like my
friends, because I have hyperextendable joints,'' she tells me and then
confides, sadly, that her frequent prolonged stays in hospital have meant losing
friends who often moved on to others when she was not around. Niamh attends the
local co-educational secondary school where she was named Pupil of the Year in
2012, and will sit her Junior Cert [GCSEs] this year. "I lose a lot of time at
school and it's hard to catch up, but I will,'' she says, acknowledging she
missed 60 days last year and now due to cutbacks she is not receiving the
resource hours she desperately needs. "The school has simply not been given the
funding required to provide the resources needed." At first Niamh had not wished
to do this interview. "Not all my friends in school know how sick I can be. But
then I thought, there are lots of kids going through stuff and reading this
might help them.'' And then she confides in me: "Our road is special. "One
neighbour has prune belly - [affecting the abdominal muscles] - and he is only
10 and the latest addition to the road, she has Downs Syndrome." Do you ever get
fed up with being sick, I ask when we withdraw to the living room alone, out of
earshot of mum and dad. "Yes, like last night I was scared about my heart," she
pauses and then says, "But I am used to it. And any way, there is always someone
else who is more sick than you.'' To meet Niamh Stirling out and about, you
would never suspect her catalogue of illnesses. She is otherwise a normal, happy
teenager with a positive outlook and a steely determination to not let being
'sick' interfere with her Irish dancing or jumping on the bus with her friends
on Saturday and going to hang out at the shopping centre. Niamh is savvy and is
smart and when I ask her if she had one wish what would that wish be, she looks
at me incredulously, as if to say 'you cannot be serious'.

Then says: "My wish would be not to be sick...'' rare diseases are not so
uncommon ? A rare disease is defined by the European Union as one that affects
less than five in 10,000 of the general population. ? The vast majority of rare
diseases will affect far fewer than this - some will affect only a handful, or
even a single person in the whole of the country ? There are between 6,000 and
8,000 known rare diseases. Around five new rare diseases are described in
medical literature each week. ? 80% of rare diseases have a genetic component.
Often rare diseases are life-threatening. ? Rare diseases can be single gene,
multifactorial, chromosomal or non-genetic. ? 75% of rare diseases affect
children, and 30% of rare disease patients die before their fifth birthday.

'She has such a high pain threshhold she seldom cried'

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Still smiling: Niamh Stirling doesn't let her complex medical problems
get her down PHOTO: TONY GAVIN
Positive outlook: Niamh Stirling and (left) with her parents Ken and Imogen.
Right, horse riding and wearing her favourite One Direction sweatshirt

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BTT


                Copyright 2013 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              392 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               Camden Advertiser

                                 April 24, 2012

Rare disease means constant care

SECTION: NEWS - GENERAL

LENGTH: 361  words


Apert syndrome is a disease most people have never heard of. As the Camden
Venetian Mayoral Ball gets closer, Kerrie Armstrong spoke to a specialist about
what the disease is and how it is treated.

THE odds of Adriana Gatteleri, 13, of Bringelly, developing Apert syndrome were
incredibly low.

Only one baby in 100,000 to 200,000 in Australia will develop the syndrome,
which is a genetic mutation.

Money to help Adriana's family with the cost of her treatment will be raised at
the Camden Venetian Mayoral Ball, sponsored by the Advertiser.

The doctor who oversees Adriana's extremely specialised care, Adelaide-based
craniomaxillofacial surgery specialist David David, said the care Apert syndrome
patients needed had improved over the past 40 years.

"Thirty or 40 years ago patients with Apert syndrome were considered severely
retarded," said Professor David, the head of the Australian Craniofacial Unit
and professor of craniomaxillofacial surgery at the University of Adelaide.

"Very few had normal lives."

Professor David said the treatment of the syndrome required management of the
patient from birth through to maturity, including at least two major surgeries
to allow the brain to grow and expand and help newborn patients to breathe.

"Now about 60 per cent of patients can live independent lives, but they require
a lot of multi-faceted care."

He said his Adelaide-based unit gave patients a multi-faceted patient-centred
approach to treatment, giving them the opportunity to speak to all of their
doctors at once and to get the full picture of their condition.

"They will need dentistry and speech therapy, they have very badly formed hands
so their will need significant occupational therapy."

The centre has treated about 160 patients since is was established 40 years ago
with treatment often concluding once the patient was in their mid-20s.

"It is a health care development system centred on the patient," Professor David
said.

COME TO THE BALL

What: Camden Venetian Mayoral Ball

When: June 29

Where: Camden Civic Centre

Cost: $130 a person or $1200 for a table of 10

Includes: Canap??s, refreshments, three-course dinner and entertainment

Tickets: Lauren, 0410423738

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2012 Fairfax Media Publications Pty. Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              393 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                  Sunday Life

                                January 11, 2015
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

WE TAKE IT COMES EACH DAY AS WITH KARA;
EXCLUSIVE MUM HAD TO LEARN ABOUT ILLNESS ONLINE ; Parents initially knew nothing
about girl's rare genetic disorder

BYLINE: Stephanie Bell

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 30,31

LENGTH: 513 words


KERRY and Patrick Deery from Londonderry don't know what the future holds for
their six-year-old daughter Kara.

She was just three months old when diagnosed with Williams Syndrome, a condition
thought to affect only 24 people in Northern Ireland. Since then, her devoted
family have found that living with a rare disease means learning as you go
along.

Health officials at Stormont are now drawing up a plan to help families facing
the same challenges.

Kerry, 44, who works parttime from home doing admin support for her husband
Patrick's car body repair business, has three other children, James, 16, Andrea,
13 and Olivia, 11.

She said: "I knew there was something not right when I was pregnant because they
kept telling me the baby wasn't growing right.

"Also when she was born I looked at her and she didn't look like my other
children.

"She spent her first 10 days in intensive care due to breathing difficulties.
When she was three months old, she took a chest infection and we brought her to
hospital. We were told she had a heart murmur and she was referred to Belfast.

"After tests there we were told she had Williams Syndrome which was such a
shock.

"We'd never heard of it. Our own GP had never heard of it."

It is a rare genetic disorder which means sufferers are missing chromosome
seven, elastin. The condition is usually diagnosed because of high levels of
calcium in the blood or as in Kara's case, through a heart defect.

There are also distinctive facial features and mild to moderate learning
difficulties. Language and sometimes music skills are very strong and people
with Williams can be hyperactive and talkative.

Kara had open heart surgery when she was 11 months old to repair a narrowing in
her heart valves.

Most of what the family know about the syndrome they have read online and Kerry
has found a family support group on Facebook which she has found invaluable.

Kara is now in mainstream education in Good Shepherd Primary, where she is
supported by a one to one classroom assistant.

Kerry said: "She is such a lovely, bubbly, happy wee girl and when I look at her
wee face sometimes she is so cute I could eat her. The whole family adores her
and she is a real daddy's girl.

"She has just learnt to ride a bike and loves riding it round the kitchen and
she loves music. We just have to put it in the back of our mind and take each
day as it comes.

"It's a learning process, and there are difficult times, but the good outweighs
the bad."

CHALLENGES Life does present both her and her family with challenges and because
so little is known about the syndrome, Kerry and Patrick do not know what to
expect.

Said Kerry: "She has no fear of strangers and has what they refer to as a
'cocktail party manner' where she loves to talk to everybody. It means she could
never be on her own.

"She also can have meltdowns when she is out, which could be down to sensory
issues she has and it means we can't stay out too long with her.

"We've also been told that her life expectancy is shorter than normal.

"We don't know what the future holds but we have to take one day at a time."

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: POSTER GIRL: Kara in campaignSISTER ACT: All the Deery girls pose for a
family pictureGIRL POWER: Little Kara has amazed her family by not letting her
rare disease hold her back

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BSL


                           Copyright 2015 Sunday Life
                              All Rights Reserved


                              394 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            August 1, 2009 Saturday

At home, soccer player fields a big team

BYLINE: By Elliott Almond ealmond@mercurynews.com

SECTION: SOCCER; Sports; News

LENGTH: 1120 words


Sissi, known to soccer fans from Brazil to the Bay Area as one of the greatest
female players ever, used to lounge at home after a grueling day of coaching and
playing.

Those days are long gone.

Since 2006, she and partner Jennifer O'Neal have welcomed a stream of foster
children into their split-level tract home in Concord, becoming one of the 456
families volunteering with the Contra Costa County adoptions department.

"Soccer gave me everything," said Sissi, a midfielder with the FC Gold Pride who
at 42 is the oldest player in the Women's Professional Soccer league. "I have a
chance to help these kids. They changed my life."

As Sissi returned home recently from practice, some of those changes presented
themselves as soon as she opened the door. Two-year-old Baby M marched forward
with outstretched arms and an impish smile on her face. A little later her
half-brother Michael, 3½, emerged with plastic blocks just as bedtime approached
ensuring a standoff would ensue.

Once the children went down, Sissi seemed momentarily at peace, reflecting on
her life.

Her social consciousness spawned from a hardscrabble childhood in northeastern
Brazil, in a house without running water. It was there in the town of Esplanada
that Sisleide do Amor Lima would have to overcome deeply entrenched machismo
stereotypes to play the sport she loved in the land of Pele.

When discouraged even by her own family, the child cut off the heads of dolls
and booted them around like soccer balls.

"I became independent at 11," Sissi said.

She left home at 14 to play on fledgling Brazilian women's soccer clubs in Rio
de Janeiro and Sao Paulo in the early 1980s. The players didn't earn much and
squeezed 12 into a room.

Despite the adversity, the women's game grew in Brazil and Sissi developed into
one of the world's best midfielders. She played in two Olympics and three
Women's World Cups, including the 1999 edition in which she scored a
tournament-best seven goals.

"In the true form she was a pioneer," Gold Pride General Manager Ilisa Kessler
said. "To be able to break through, to be determined, to really make something
of herself coming from Brazil is phenomenal."

Sissi came to San Jose in 2001 to play for the CyberRays of the now-defunct
Women's United Soccer Association, then returned in 2003 to play for the
semi-pro California Storm. She learned English, turned to coaching and made a
new home.

"Now you look back and say, 'How did this happen?'" said Sissi, who plans to
retire after the season ends next weekend.

It's a statement about far more than soccer.

'Just what you do'

She and O'Neal started volunteering in 2006 after O'Neal's birth daughter,
Rachel, read a newspaper story about the need for foster families in Contra
Costa County. Rachel, then 10, insisted the family not sit on the sideline
even if it would challenge them all.

After they attended a foster care orientation the county placed Michael in their
care. They soon began the adoption process.

It took some time before county officials realized they were working with a
soccer icon. Whoever enters their home, though, soon discovers the importance of
soccer.

Michael often sports an FC Barcelona T-shirt. There are photos of the boy draped
in a Brazilian flag. Then there are the cleats. Michael has collected so many,
the mothers won't take him into a soccer store anymore.

"He was kicking the ball before he was walking," O'Neal said.

Besides coaching and playing for the Gold Pride, Sissi coaches some East Bay
girls club teams and at Las Positas College in Livermore. The children often
come along for games.

"Sometimes we'd have four of the kids with us and friends would say, 'Are you
nuts?'" O'Neal, who teaches psychology at Las Positas, said. "We both just have
this belief that you're supposed to give back. That's just what you do."

Since Michael joined them, the family has fostered six children.

"I can do this for them because I already have everything," Sissi said. "If I
can at least give a little bit, it's a first step."

Those steps have impressed Christine Downs, a Contra Costa County social worker
who places foster children with the family.

"When a child comes into their home, they have no limits, no judgments," Downs
said. "I've had some really difficult children in their home and they embraced
it. These kids don't feel like foster kids. They feel like a part of the
family."

The women didn't balk when welcoming Baby M, who can't be identified by name
while in foster care. Within 24 hours they realized something was wrong with
her. Numerous doctors' examinations determined she suffers from a genetic
disorder known as Velocardiofacial Syndrome.

O'Neal listed some of the 2-year-old's symptoms: Her ears are folded over the
top; her eyelashes, fingers and toes elongated; she has only one kidney. She
also suffers from a cleft palate, a compromised immune system, speech delays and
fine-motor skill delays.

They use sign language to communicate with the girl, who might never learn to
speak, O'Neal said.

Sissi and O'Neal plan to adopt Baby M by the end of the year because they want
to keep the siblings together. They also plan to resume fostering others once
they have Baby M's needs met.

As they suspected, their new tasks have been challenging. But nothing has put a
stop to the family tradition: attending soccer matches.

A support group

Ten years after leading Brazil against the United States in a Women's World Cup
semifinal at Stanford, Sissi made her Women's Professional Soccer league debut
last month at Buck Shaw Stadium.

This time she had a cheering section in the upper deck: Rachel, now 13, Michael
and Baby M, wearing a yellow Gold Pride T-shirt and flower wreath, accompanied
O'Neal. Baby M's pre-school teachers and other friends sat nearby.

With 12 minutes left against the St. Louis Athletica, Sissi stood, stretched her
lean legs and walked toward the gate to enter the field.

O'Neal let out an ear-curdling scream, much to the chagrin of Rachel. Michael
announced he wanted to go home.

"Honey, your Momma's on the field playing," O'Neal told him. "She's kicking a
soccer ball."

When the small group began chanting "See-SEE," Michael and Baby M joined in
clapping.

Down on the field, Sissi heard the commotion. Later, she recalled how the family
offered her motivation as she tried to help the Gold Pride rally in the final,
frenzied minutes.

As soon as the match ended in defeat, O'Neal apologized to a St. Louis fan
standing behind her for the boisterous display.

"She's family," she said to the man.

The father of St. Louis defender Tina Frimpong Ellertson had his own
appreciation for the one-time Brazilian star.

"She's a legend," Joe Frimpong said.

And he only knew the half of it.

Contact Elliott Almond at 408-920-5865.

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Sissi, FC Gold Pride player, carries her son, Michael, 3, after a game
at Buck Shaw Stadium in Santa Clara June 7, 2009. Sissi, who is an assistant
coach with the Pride, and her partner, Jennifer O'Neal have had seven foster
kids so far. Michael, who they recently adopted was their first foster child.
They also have another foster child, a baby who is 22 months and has a rare
disease called velocardial facial syndrome that leads to dozens of anomalies and
development issues. This former soccer star who grew up in poverty in Brazil,
and after all of her success feels compelled to give back to children. (Pauline
Lubens/San Jose Mercury News)
Sissi, FC Gold Pride player, plays with her son, Michael, 3, after a game at
Buck Shaw Stadium in Santa Clara June 7, 2009. Sissi, who is an assistant coach
with the Pride, and her partner, Jennifer O'Neal have had seven foster kids so
far. Michael, who they recently adopted was their first foster child. They also
have another foster child, a baby who is 22 months and has a rare disease called
velocardial facial syndrome that leads to dozens of anomalies and development
issues. This former soccer star who grew up in poverty in Brazil, and after all
of her success feels compelled to give back to children. (Pauline Lubens/San
Jose Mercury News)
Sissi, FC Gold Pride player,walks with her son, Michael, 3, after a game at Buck
Shaw Stadium in Santa Clara June 7, 2009. Sissi and her partner, Jennifer O'Neal
have had seven foster kids so far. Michael, who they recently adopted was their
first foster child. They also have another foster child, a baby who is 22 months
and has a rare disease called velocardial facial syndrome that leads to dozens
of anomalies and development issues. This former soccer star who grew up in
poverty in Brazil, and after all of her success feels compelled to give back to
children. (Pauline Lubens/San Jose Mercury News)
Jennifer O'Neal whose partner, Sissi plays for FC Gold Price, points her out
from the stands to their daughter, Rachel, Left, and son Michael, bottom right,
during a game at Buck Shaw Stadium in Santa Clara June 7, 2009. Sissi and O'Neal
have had seven foster kids so far. Michael, who they recently adopted was their
first foster child. They also have another foster child, a baby who is 22 months
and has a rare disease called velocardial facial syndrome that leads to dozens
of anomalies and development issues. This former soccer star who grew up in
poverty in Brazil, and after all of her success feels compelled to give back to
children. (Pauline Lubens/San Jose Mercury News)
Sissi, FC Gold Pride player, holds hands with son, Michael, 3, after a game at
Buck Shaw Stadium in Santa Clara June 7, 2009. Sissi, who is an assistant coach
with the Pride, and her partner, Jennifer O'Neal have had seven foster kids so
far. Michael, who they recently adopted was their first foster child. They also
have another foster child, a baby who is 22 months and has a rare disease called
velocardial facial syndrome that leads to dozens of anomalies and development
issues. This former soccer star who grew up in poverty in Brazil, and after all
of her success feels compelled to give back to children. (Pauline Lubens/San
Jose Mercury News)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              395 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                 Derry Journal

                             March 3, 2015 Tuesday

Inishowen speakers for conference

LENGTH: 282  words


An Inishowen woman is to speak at a major cross-border conference focusing on
birth defects and rare disease.

Sharon Thompson from Moville will speak at the event, which will be held today
at Lough Erne Resort in support of Rare Disease Day and World Birth Defect day.

Sharon and her husband Brian's little girl, Victoria, passed away at the age of
just nine-months-old.

The conference is being organised by The Northern Ireland Rare Disease
Partnership (NIRDP) and patients, carers, clinicians and health and social care
professionals, as well as charities and other organisations, will take part,
supporting their ethos of "Stronger Together".

A second Inishowen person, Donall Henderson, the CEO of the Foyle Hospice, will
also speak at the event.

The morning session will focus on birth defects and the afternoon session on
rare disease.

The organisers say the day as a whole will bring together families, carers,
patient representative organisations, industry representatives, and clinicians
and other health and social care professionals, with policy makers and advisers.

Sharon Thompson will speak on Losing a Child and Palliative Care.'

Sharon is also part of the group of mothers who call themselves Our Children's
Voice,' who are calling for greater palliative care services, cross-border and
respite care in Donegal.

It was recently confirmed that a children's outreach nurse will be appointed in
Donegal but the group have said they will also continue to fight on for other
issues such as cross-border care.

Other speakers at today's conference include Dr. Frank Casey: Consultant
paediatric cardiologist, Royal Belfast Hospital for Sick Children and Donna
Lynch: Down's Syndrome Association.

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: INJF


                       Copyright 2015 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved


                              396 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                      October 11, 2016 Tuesday 6:30 AM EST

Soligenix Announces Poster Presentation of Its Ricin Vaccine, Dusquetide Orphan
Programs at 2016 NORD Rare Diseases, Orphan Products Breakthrough Summit

LENGTH: 1757  words


Oct. 11 -- Soligenix, Inc. (OTCQB: SNGXD) (Soligenix or the Company), a
late-stage biopharmaceutical company focused on developing and commercializing
products to treat rare diseases where there is an unmet medical need, announced
today that it has been invited to present preliminary results from two programs
at National Organization for Rare Disorders' (NORD's) Rare Diseases and Orphan
Products Breakthrough Summit on October 17-18, 2016 in Arlington, VA.

The presented results will be available for viewing throughout the conference
and will address preclinical efficacy findings in two programs that have
previously been granted orphan drug designation by the US Food and Drug
Administration (FDA):

* Dusquetide in the treatment of macrophage activation syndrome (MAS); and

* RiVax, a proprietary thermostable ricin toxin vaccine, for the prevention of
ricin intoxication.

Dusquetide (the active ingredient in SGX942) is a first-in-class Innate Defense
Regulator. It modulates the response of the innate immune system in response to
various stimuli, including infection, tissue damage and inflammation. Dusquetide
has shown preclinical efficacy in an extensive array of preclinical models
emphasizing all 3 aspects of its activity. As will be presented, the drug is
effective in a preclinical model of MAS. This finding is supported by
dusquetide's ability to improve survival in models of bacteremia which also
feature excess innate immune pro-inflammatory signaling. Clinical activity,
highlighting the anti-inflammatory action of dusquetide, has also been obtained
in both Phase 1 and Phase 2 clinical studies. Results from the Phase 2 study
recently demonstrated that dusquetide can reduce the duration of severe oral
mucositis, caused by the excessive inflammatory response of the innate immune
system to damage caused by chemoradiation, in head and neck cancer patients.

RiVax is the Company's proprietary vaccine candidate for the prevention of
exposure to ricin toxin using a unique antigen that is completely devoid of the
toxic activity of ricin. When formulated with Soligenix's proprietary
heat-stabilization ThermoVax technology, RiVax has demonstrated significantly
enhanced thermostability and 100% protection in preclinical ricin aerosol
challenge models.

Poster Presentation Titles:

* An Innate Defense Regulator for the Treatment of Macrophage Activation
Syndrome: Preclinical Studies in an Orphan Indication

* Orphan Disease, Biodefense and the Animal Rule: A Thermostabilized Ricin Toxin
Vaccine

About the NORD Rare Disease and Orphan Products Breakthrough Summit

NORD's Rare Diseases and Orphan Products Breakthrough Summit features speakers
from the FDA, participation of patient organizations and the Pharma/Biotech
industry's foremost experts in orphan product innovation, investment and
commercialization. More details about the conference can be found at
http://rarediseases.org/summit-overview/.

About Dusquetide

Dusquetide is an innate defense regulator (IDR), a new class of short, synthetic
peptides. It has a novel mechanism of action in that it modulates the body's
reaction to both injury and infection towards an anti-inflammatory and an
anti-infective response. IDRs have no direct antibiotic activity but, by
modulating the host's innate immune system responses, increase survival after
infections with a broad range of bacterial Gram-negative and Gram-positive
pathogens. It also accelerates resolution of tissue damage following exposure to
a variety of agents including bacterial pathogens, trauma and chemo- and/or
radiation therapy. Preclinical efficacy and safety has been demonstrated in
numerous animal disease models including mucositis, colitis, melioidosis, MAS
and other bacterial infections. Some of these preclinical findings have been
published in an article entitled "A novel approach for emerging and antibiotic
resistant infections: Innate defense regulators as an agnostic therapy" and are
available at the following link:
http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.jbiotec.2016.03.032.

SGX942 (the drug product containing dusquetide) has demonstrated safety in a
Phase 1 clinical study in 84 healthy human volunteers. Recently, SGX942 has
demonstrated preliminary efficacy and safety in an exploratory Phase 2 clinical
study in 111 patients with oral mucositis due to chemoradiation (CRT) therapy
for head and neck cancer. Consistent with preclinical findings, SGX942 at a dose
of 1.5 mg/kg demonstrated positive improvements in decreasing the duration of
severe oral mucositis by 50% overall compared to the placebo group, from 18 days
to 9 days (p=0.099). In patients at highest risk of oral mucositis (e.g., those
exposed to the most aggressive concomitant chemotherapy), the reduction in the
duration of severe oral mucositis was even more significant at 67% when treated
with SGX942 1.5 mg/kg, from 30 days to 10 days (p=0.04). The p-values meet the
prospectively defined statistical threshold of p&lt;0.1 in the study protocol.
Additional observations included an improved tumor response to CRT therapy at
the one month follow up visit, as well as decreases in infection rate.

Dusquetide and related analogs have a strong intellectual property position,
including composition of matter. Dusquetide was developed pursuant to
discoveries made by Professors B. Brett Finlay, PhD and Robert Hancock, PhD of
the University of British Columbia, Canada.

Drug products containing dusquetide have also received Fast Track Designations
from the FDA for the treatment of oral mucositis as a result of radiation and/or
chemotherapy treatment in head and neck cancer patients, and as an adjunctive
therapy with other antibacterial drugs, for the treatment of melioidosis. Orphan
Drug Designation for use of dusquetide in the treatment of MAS has also been
granted.

About RiVax

RiVax is Soligenix's proprietary recombinant subunit vaccine developed to
protect against exposure to ricin toxin. With RiVax, Soligenix is a world leader
in the area of ricin toxin vaccine research.

RiVax contains a genetically altered version of a RTA chain containing two
mutations that inactivate the toxicity of the ricin molecule. A Phase 1A
clinical trial was conducted with a formulation of RiVax that did not contain an
adjuvant. This trial revealed dose dependent seroconversion as well as lack of
toxicity of the molecule when administered intramuscularly to human volunteers.
The adjuvant-free formulation of RiVax induced toxin neutralizing antibodies
that lasted up to 127 days after the third vaccination in several individuals.
To increase the longevity and magnitude of toxin neutralizing antibodies, RiVax
was formulated with an adjuvant of aluminum salts (known colloquially as Alum)
for a Phase 1B clinical trial. Alum is an adjuvant that is used in many human
vaccines, including most vaccines used in infants. The results of the Phase 1B
study indicated that Alum-adjuvanted RiVax was safe and well tolerated, and
induced greater ricin neutralizing antibody levels in humans than adjuvant-free
RiVax. In preclinical animal studies, the Alum formulation of RiVax also induced
higher titers and longer lasting antibodies than the adjuvant-free vaccine.
Vaccination with the Alum-adjuvanted RiVax formulation in a large animal model
provided 100% protection (p&lt;0.0001) against acute exposure to aerosolized
ricin, the most lethal route of exposure for ricin. The protected animals also
had no signs of gross lung damage, a serious and enduring ramification with
long-term consequences for survivors of ricin exposure.

The development of RiVax has been sponsored through a series of grants from both
the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID), part of the
National Institutes of Health, and the FDA, which were granted to Soligenix and
to the University of Texas Southwestern (UTSW) where the vaccine originated. To
date, Soligenix and Dr. Ellen Vitetta and colleagues at UTSW have collectively
received approximately $25 million in grant funding from NIAID for development
of RiVax and related vaccine technologies. RiVax would potentially be added to
the Strategic National Stockpile and dispensed in the event of a terrorist
attack.

About ThermoVax

ThermoVax is a technology that is designed to eliminate the standard cold chain
production, distribution and storage logistics required for most vaccines. Cold
chain requirements add considerable cost to the production and storage of
current conventional vaccines. According to the Biopharma Cold Chain Sourcebook
of 2010, more than 90% of all vaccines (with a total value of $20.6 billion)
require shipment through cold chain. Elimination of the cold chain would also
enhance the utility of these vaccines for emerging markets and for other
applications requiring but lacking reliable cold chain capabilities. Further,
the World Health Organization (WHO) reports that as much as 50% of all global
vaccine doses are wasted due, in part, to excursions outside required
temperature ranges. NIAID has also highlighted the priority of technologies for
biodefense vaccines that focus on broad spectrum approaches including vaccine
adjuvants and temperature stabilization for long shelf life, rapid onset of
immunity, and surge capacity for production. For vaccines that are intended for
long-term stockpiling, such as for use in biodefense or in pandemic situations,
the utilization of ThermoVax has the potential to facilitate easier storage and
distribution of strategic national stockpile vaccines in emergency situations.

The technology utilizes precise lyophilization of protein immunogens with
conventional aluminum adjuvants in combination with secondary adjuvants for
rapid onset of protective immunity with the fewest number of vaccinations. RiVax
is extremely labile in liquid form requiring careful management under
refrigerated conditions at 4 degrees Celsius (39 degrees Fahrenheit). By
employing ThermoVax during the final formulation, it is possible to produce
stable and potent vaccines that are capable of withstanding temperatures at
least as high as 40 degrees Celsius (104 degrees Fahrenheit) for up to one year.

The underlying technology has been developed by Drs. John Carpenter and Theodore
Randolph at the University of Colorado. The vaccine technology has been
developed to date in collaboration with SRI International, the University of
Kansas, the Wadsworth Center of the New York State Department of Health, and the
Tulane National Primate Research Center under the sponsorship of the cooperative
grant from NIAID.

Source: Soligenix

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2016 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              397 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                    San Gabriel Valley Tribune (California)

                             August 4, 2008 Monday

`He's a special little guy'

BYLINE: By Ruby Gonzales, Staff Writer

SECTION: HEALTH; Lifestyle

LENGTH: 966 words


Aiden Waters likes watching DVDs of the television show "Boobah." He enjoys
being tickled and is a big fan of Cookie Monster, too.

But what is unusual about this 4-year-old Azusa boy is that he has had 15 laser
treatments on his face and an operation for glaucoma. He's scheduled to undergo
brain surgery Aug. 21 at Ronald Reagan UCLA Medical Center.

Aiden has a rare neuro-

logical disorder called Sturge-Weber Syndrome that causes him to have seizures.
Like others with the syndrome, he was born with a large birthmark on his face
called a port wine stain. In his case, it appears on the right side and covers
part of his forehead and his right eyelid, which caused the glaucoma. Laser
treatments have lightened the stain from purple to pink.

"It's not only a cosmetic issue, but a medical issue," said his mother, Rachel
Waters, 31. The birthmark is caused by an overabundance of blood vessels around
the trigeminal nerve. If left untreated, nodules will develop.

What causes Sturge-Weber is unknown. It is characterized by the birthmark and
neurological abnormalities. The brain underneath the birthmark is also affected,
according to Anne Howard, director of communication for the nonprofit
Sturge-Weber Foundation which is based in Randolph, N.J.

Aiden will be undergoing a hemispherectomy, in which the damaged parts of the
right side of his brain will be removed. He needs donated blood for the upcoming
surgery; a blood drive is scheduled for Saturday in Azusa.

Dr. Charles Imbus is one of Aiden's neurologists, but is not part of the UCLA
team that will be performing the hemispherectomy. He said the surgery will
control Aiden's seizures and the child will have better use of the left
hemisphere of his brain.

"Sometimes, we do better with half a brain" than a whole brain with a good half
and bad half, Imbus said. "I really do have high hopes he will recover and be a
self-

sustaining individual in life."

Right now, Aiden takes medication for the seizures and for the glaucoma.

"I'm worried about the surgery," Waters said. There's "no way of knowing he will
be better or worse. But without the surgery, he will have a life-long battle
with seizures. He deserves to have a chance."

Aiden, Waters' only child, was born the day after

Valentine's Day 2004. The birthmark on the baby's face was large and vivid. Her
doctor identified it as a port wine stain. At the time, they lived in Arizona.
She did research online and found that because the birthmark involved the
forehead and the right eyelid, it was likely her son had Sturge-Weber Syndrome.

Waters was told to take her son to an ophthalmologist, who found there was
increasing pressure within the right eye. Aiden was put on prescription eyedrops
and then had eye surgery when he was 2 1/ 2 months old.

At 3 months old, he had his first seizure and ended up in an emergency room.
There, he was diagnosed with Sturge-Weber Syndrome. It was frightening, but not
completely unexpected.

His first laser treatment to lighten the birthmark was when he was 4 months old.

NOT EVERYONE born with a port wine stain birthmark has Sturge-Weber. Between 8
percent to 15 percent of those with such a birthmark are at risk of having the
disorder, according to the Sturge-Weber Foundation.

There are no exact numbers on how many people have Sturge-Weber Syndrome. Howard
said the foundation can document 3,000 cases and those are people who notified
them.

"When people call us, we ask them to register with the foundation because that's
the only way we can get statistics," Howard said.

Each case varies in the degree of the symptoms exhibited.

"The isolation is a big problem for families" who deal with a rare disease,
Howard said. A rare disease is anything with fewer than 200,000 cases.

"We can provide contact and support," Howard said.

Because Sturge-Weber is rare, Waters wants to spread awareness about it.

"I know there are families out there like us," she said.

The foundation's Internet support group helped connect Waters to other local
families dealing with the same issues. Waters said she knows of four others in
Southern California, including a Long Beach family whose daughter went through a
hemispherectomy a year ago.

Waters, who is divorced from Aiden's father, lives with her mother, Fran
Pulokas, stepfather John Pulokas and boyfriend Jason McCormack, 33.

Waters works from home, selling safety signs and identification products. She
takes Aiden to twice-weekly physical therapy, speech therapy and occupational
therapy to teach him fine motor skills and hand-eye coordination. Since he
doesn't know how to chew, he also attends therapy to learn feeding skills. He
cannot say words, but he babbles.

"Right now, he is 8 to 12 months old developmentally wise," she said.

She said Aiden's left side is partially paralyzed. He can move his left hand but
won't use it to hold anything. His left foot tilts inward.

But Waters doesn't rail at the cards that fate dealt her son.

"It makes me sad more than anything else for a little guy to be born with all
these problems right off the bat," she said. "I don't feel angry. I feel
blessed. He's so loving."

But she has seen the stares and heard the callous remarks tossed their way by
strangers. "I wish people would be a little more

sensitive."

She actually prefers it when people ask her about her child. She would like to
tell them about Sturge-Weber Syndrome.

"It's just an unfortunate disease," she said. "I think Aiden has much potential
but he's being hindered by it. But with medical technology, there's hope."

Waters wants Aiden to have a normal, happy life,

to be able to go to regular school and to play and

communicate with other children.

"He's more than his syndrome. He's a special little guy. I would like people to
think of him as a person," she said.

ruby.gonzales@sgvn.com

(562) 698-0955, Ext. 3026

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Four-year-old Aiden Waters kisses his mother, Rachel, while waiting
atthe Beckman Laser Institute facility in Irvine on Friday, July 25,2008, where
doctors use lasers to fade the Port Wine Stain birthmarkfrom his face. Waters
has a rare disease called Struge-Weber syndromewhich causes seizures and other
neurological symptoms. He is scheduledfor a hemispherectomy, a surgical
procedure in which half his brainwill be removed, on August 21.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2008 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              398 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                Mail & Guardian

                               February 25, 2011

There's solace in numbers in the world of rare diseases

BYLINE: Morgan Morris

LENGTH: 1869 words


In the world of rare diseases, the story of the Daniels family in Kraaifontein,
Cape Town, is probably typical.  For instance, it took parents Gail and Colin
Daniels more than 11 years to put a name to the condition -- cystinosis -- that
had dogged their daughter, Danielle, since birth. It is a disease that has
stunted her growth, slowed her learning, made her a fixture in doctors' offices
and hospital wards and subjected her to a rigid diet of supplements and
boosters.  The family had its first scare when Danielle was hospitalised when
she was only a few months old. By age two, doctors looked at her small frame and
bowed legs. She "waddled", her mother said. She suspected that her child had
rickets, a disease, common in Africa, that is characterised by the softening of
what are meant to be growing bones. It is caused by a shortage of both vitamin D
and calcium.

Narrowing down the condition But after months of tests, mad dashes to the
hospital, a string of specialists and a babble of misdiagnoses, doctors finally
narrowed down her condition to Fanconi syndrome.   Named after a Swiss
paediatrician, the syndrome affects the ducts or tubes leading from the kidney.
These ducts are meant to salvage essential nutrients from fluids passing through
the kidneys. But in this syndrome the ducts are unable to do so and precious
glucose, carbohydrates, phosphates, amino acids and minerals are passed out in
the urine. Without those essential nutrients a rogue's gallery of troubles
follow, rickets and weak bone formation -- leading to that waddling and
underdevelopment -- among them.  There is no cure for Fanconi syndrome. Instead,
patients are put on a lifelong course of boosters, supplements, vitamins,
phosphate replacements and citrates to make up for the shortfall of minerals.
So for the years that followed Danielle's life revolved around daily handfuls of
pills, potions and powders. She dared not skip a dosage. "It's normal now," she
says of this regimen.  But, despite the medication, her problems persisted.
There were threats of kidney failure, she was in and out of hospital and her
eyesight weakened enough to scare the family. Also patients are commonly
lethargic, so learning is slow.  Her mother, a teacher, became increasingly
frustrated with evasive doctors. So she started her own research, foraging
whatever she could from newspapers and the web. "The funny thing was that I
couldn't tell the doctors anything I knew," she says. "They didn't want me to
know."  But it was this research that pointed her in the direction of
cystinosis. "The name kept coming up whenever you read about Fanconi."  Naming
the disease Cystinosis borrows its name from a namesake gene, the cystinosis
gene. Also known as CTNS, the gene provides the instructions to produce a
transport protein -- cystinosin -- inside compartments in the cell known as
lysosomes. Inside these lysosomes, the cystinosin is broken down into its
smaller building blocks, amino acids, including one known as cystine. Living up
to its job title, the cystinosin then carries the cystine out of the lysosomes.
When it is unable to do so, the cells produce too little cystinosin or the
cystinosin is too weak to carry out its transport duties. Cystine accumulates in
the lysosomes and grows into crystals. These crystals then destroy the
lysosomes, the cells and ultimately the body's tissues. The crystals typically
form in the brain, liver, thyroid, pancreas, muscles and particularly in the
kidneys and eyes. In the kidneys it damages ducts that can lead to full-blown
kidney failure, necessitating kidney transplants. In the eyes the cystine
crystals build up in the cornea, triggering extreme sensitivity to light
(photophobia) and eventual blindness. Cystinosis can be put down to a stroke of
poor genetic luck. Both parents, unaffected by the condition, have to carry the
faulty CTNS gene. Each parent then passes on a copy of that gene to their child.
Statistically, there's a 25% chance that parents carrying the mutated gene will
have a child with cystinosis. Gail and Colin have a second child, a son, Dane
(20), who does not have cystinosis. A childhood disease, cystinosis is
considered rare. It is said to affect one child in every 100 000 to 200 000 live
births. According to available statistics, only about 2 000 people around the
world have been diagnosed with cystinosis. But elementary mathematics -- one in
200 000 in a world population of 6,7-billion people -- would suggest that that
number is way off the mark. "A lot of children probably die from this condition
without it being diagnosed, especially in the developing world," said Dr Peter
Nourse, the paediatric nephrologist at Cape Town's Red Cross Children's Hospital
who treats Danielle. With about 14 patients at Cape Town's Red Cross and
Tygerberg hospitals, Nourse has good reason to think that the disease is more
common than statistics bear out. "We haven't worked out the true incidence in
South Africa, but it does seem that there are quite a lot of cases, actually,"
he says. Treatment Although there is no cure for cystinosis, there is a
treatment in a drug called cysteamine. It was Gail who stumbled on it in a
newspaper article about another Red Cross doctor who was treating cases of
photophobia with eye drops he'd cooked up, using cysteamine as the main
ingredient.  Cysteamine breaks down the stored-up cystine into a similarly named
amino acid, cysteine, and a cysteine-cysteamine mix, both of which are flushed
out of the lysosomes. But one needs regular fixes: a cysteamine drink (drug plus
distilled water) has to be downed every six hours like clockwork, the eye drops
administered hourly.  Also, the cocktail tastes "disgusting", so doctors,
parents and caregivers have their work cut out feeding it to children four times
a day, says Nourse. Even hardened nurses have been known to recoil at the smell.
Danielle is more fortunate. She takes an easier-to-keep-down capsule version of
cysteamine, Cystagon, which costs about R18 000 a month, a bill footed by the
family's medical aid scheme.  Cystagon was developed as an orphan drug --
medication for rare diseases -- in the United States, where it has been
prescribed for cystinosis for the past 15 years. It's not readily available or
licensed in South Africa, though. So the family also had to jump through a
number of bureaucratic hoops to have the drug imported.  There's the potential
of an even sweeter pill on the horizon. Raptor Pharmaceuticals in the US is
making headway on a delayed-release version of the treatment, to be known as DR
Cysteamine. It's hoped that DR Cysteamine will cut out some of Cystagon's side
effects and halve the daily dosage.  "The new formulation should be better
tolerated and taken only every 12 hours," reports Margret Kamel, a research
coordinator with a team conducting phase-three human trials on the drug at Emory
Children's Centre in the US.  Joining forces But how is it that cystinosis is
worthy of all this attention? After all, the markets for treatments for most
rare diseases are usually too small to coax companies to do the necessary R&D.
"Funding for rare diseases is very uneven," points out cystinosis guru Dr
William A Gahl, clinical director at the National Human Genome Research
Institute in Maryland in the US. "Cystinosis, too, languished for a while."  But
the condition piqued academic interest because of its "intriguing basis" as a
lysosomal transport defect, says Gahl. Researchers hope that treatments for a
few dozen inherited metabolic disorders, also linked to faulty lysosomes, can be
developed on the back of cystinosis studies.  Cystinosis also benefits from the
American Orphan Drug Act, which allows pharmaceutical companies to sell their
orphan drugs without fear of competition for a full seven years.  Families push
for research But most of the credit should go to one American family. Under the
banner of the Cystinosis Research Foundation (CRF) they established in 2003,
Nancy and Geoffrey Stack, whose 19-year-old daughter Natalie has cystinosis,
have raised around $12-million, money they distribute in research grants. That
makes the family the largest supporter of cystinosis research in the world.  It
was a CRF-funded researcher,  for example, who did the groundwork for the new
delayed-release cysteamine. The foundation's latest project is the establishment
of the first and only international patient registry, named the Cure Cystinosis
International Registry.  "Our goal is to get every patient with cystinosis to
register," says Nancy. "By doing so, we'll have a more thorough picture of
cystinosis and its complications, providing our research teams with information
they so desperately need to discover novel treatments and a cure."  And a cure
is exactly where the CRF is headed next. Recently the foundation established the
CRF Gene Therapy Consortium, which includes experts in gene and stem-cell
therapy.  Working with mouse models, researchers at Scripps Institute in San
Diego have used stem cells extracted from bone marrow to express a more
shipshape CTNS gene. This revitalised gene was then able to reverse the
accumulation of cystine in the cell and subsequent cell death.  The scientists
are optimistic but cautious. "These data are very promising, but the translation
from mice to humans does not always reproduce the same effect," says Dr
Stephanie Cherqui, assistant professor in the department of molecular and
experimental medicine at Scripps.  Support and education The Daniels family is
playing its part. In 2010 Gail and Colin established the South African
Cystinosis Support Group, affiliated to the US-based Cystinosis Foundation,
which is distinct from the Stacks' Cystinosis Research Foundation, but the
groups work hand in hand on, for example, the international registry.  Gail is
mother hen to others in the South African group, largely state patients with no
medical aid. She's produced easy-to-follow information pamphlets for the group
and meets and advises members. Until recently Colin covered most of the running
costs and lent other assistance, such as cooler bags to preserve the cysteamine
drink. (The group now receives a small donation from a Dutch couple, Jan and
Marjolein Bos, who run a similar group in the Netherlands.)  Gail wants group
members to have the same kind of support she received through the Cystinosis
Foundation. "The foundation was the best thing that could have happened to us,"
she says, "because we could speak to people who understood what we were saying
and what we had gone through."  Her mentor on the foundation is the
eightysomething founder, Jean Hobbs-Hotz. "There is a treatment for cystinosis,"
says Hobbs-Hotz. "We want the medical community to understand the disease so
they can make a proper diagnosis and for families to understand the disease and
the need for compliance."   Danielle remains on the verge of kidney failure, but
her family is keeping their eye on the future. "To say the worst is over won't
be very realistic," says Gail. "But we are hopeful and prayerful that by God's
grace a cure for cystinosis will be found so that Danielle and many other
sufferers will be able to enjoy good health."

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: It's been a long journey of discovery for the family of a Cape Town girl
who suffers from cystinosis.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2011 M and G Media (Pty) Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              399 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                  Burton Mail

                          September 22, 2016 Thursday

Wheelchair-bound woman's plea

SECTION: NEWS:OTHER; Pg. 10-11

LENGTH: 314  words


A woman who was left wheelchair-bound after developing a number of rare diseases
is raising awareness of the life-changing conditions that have left her unable
to pick up a knife and suffering several seizures every day. Gemma Corner, of
Woodville, was a happy and active girl but  that changed when she turned 17.

After falling ill, Miss Corner was diagnosed with functional neurological
disorder, chronic fatigue syndrome, non-epileptic seizures, migraines, complex
regional pain syndrome, polycystic ovary syndrome and blackouts. The 34-year-old
now has several seizures a day and has had six operations on her right foot as a
result of her condition.

Miss Corner, who has had hyper-mobility since birth, last worked 10 years ago as
a shop assistant and in a bakery, and said she has become completely isolated
from the outside world.

She wears morphine patches as she is constantly in pain and has a tremor that
means she can no longer do things independently, like take a shower.

Miss Corner lives at home with her mum who acts as her carer. She is in bed for
more than 12 hours a day and said that she has lost all independence since she
became ill.

She said: "I want people to try to understand what I am going through. People
can be judgemental and the way people look at me sometimes is heartbreaking.

"I  am not getting the violin out as I have to live with this now but I think
people could be kinder - if they realised what my life was like they might be.

She said: "I cannot do anything by myself. I can't even make a sandwich as I am
not allowed to use a knife. I rely on my mum all the time which is really hard
for me and can sometimes take its toll on her.

"I just want to get the word out there and maybe meet someone who knows what I
am going through."

Gemma's mum Sue  said: "Gemma hasn't got a life.  She feels constantly judged
and she hasn't really got any friends."

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2016 Localworld
                              All Rights Reserved


                              400 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          The Calgary Herald (Alberta)

                            January 22, 2012 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Four-year-old fights rare disease; Family holding walk to raise research funds

BYLINE: Jen Gerson, Calgary Herald

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A3

LENGTH: 477  words


One day two years ago, little Sophia's eyelids grew swollen in her sleep.

Assuming the toddler was having an allergic reaction, her mother, Andrea
Galbraith, took her to the Hospital for Sick Children in Toronto. Soon her
entire body plumped and Sophia received a diagnoses any mother would fear.

Her daughter had a rare condition called Nephrotic Syndrome. As the little girl
would understand it: "My kidneys are broken."

As treatment progressed, more bad news. Most children with the disease grow out
of it and their organs recover.

But Sophia had FSGS - Focal Segmental Glomerulosclerosis - a designation that
indicates a progressively worsening condition.

Eventually she will need dialysis, and probably a kidney transplant. But her
parents don't know when.

Now four-years-old, Sophia has tried several different kids of drugs, some of
them so toxic that the pharmacist had to warn Galbraith against crushing them up
herself.

Others were labelled with a big label warning of possible side-effects like
cancer.

Sophia has been in and out of hospital as treatment after treatment failed.

"It's been hard, watching your daughter get sicker and sicker," she said. "We
don't know what her life will be like, if she'll be able to go to school
normally, or if she'll be able to graduate from university."

But rather than feel sorry for herself or her family, Galbraith became a
fundraising dynamo.

She held a walk in Toronto that raised $30,000 for NephCure, an organization
that raises awareness about the disease. She, her 10-year-old daughter, Emma,
and her husband relocated to Calgary last year and are now close to family.

She hopes to hold a NephCure walk here.

With luck, she is planning for a 100-person, familyfriendly event on June 23 at
Edworthy Park. By holding a walk, Galbraith expects to raise more money for
research and possibly meet other local families who are coping with the rare
disease.

Fundraising gives the mother hope.

"It helps me to heal," she said. "It helps me to cope."

After all, her daughter and others like her will have a better shot at survival
if more people understand and direct research funds to nephrotic syndrome.

"It makes me feel good to make a difference," she said.

Sophia is now on a fourth drug to suppress her immune system and help her
kidneys to function. It's an experimental drug, normally used for lymphoma
patients and Galbraith doesn't know if it will work.

What they do know is that, after one treatment, Sophia is bouncing around - well
enough to play tennis at the local community centre.

The family is planning a trip to Houston, trying to take advantage of a few
months of wellness.

But they don't know how long it will last.

"I know there are a lot of causes out there, but this one is near and dear to my
heart," she said.

Anyone wishing to contribute can search for the Calgary run on www.nephcure.org.

jgerson@calgaryherald.com

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Lorraine Hjalte, Calgary Herald; Mark and Andrea Galbraith read with
their daughters, Sophia, centre, and Emma, at their Calgary home Saturday.
Sophia has a rare disorder called Nephrotic Syndrome and Andrea is planning
Calgary's first NephCure walk in June.;

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2012 The Calgary Herald, a division of Canwest MediaWorks Publication
                                      Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              401 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                        July 27, 2015 Monday 6:30 AM EST

Sanofi: Genzyme Strengthens Endocrinology Portfolio with Acquisition of Rare
Disease Therapy Caprelsa (vandetanib) from AstraZeneca

LENGTH: 1391  words


July 27 -- Sanofi and its subsidiary Genzyme announced today that it has entered
into a definitive agreement with AstraZeneca to acquire Caprelsa (vandetanib), a
rare disease therapy, indicated for the treatment of symptomatic or progressive
medullary thyroid carcinoma in patients with unresectable locally advanced or
metastatic disease.

Caprelsa is an oral kinase inhibitor treatment and is currently available in 28
countries. Caprelsa is in Phase III development for differentiated thyroid
carcinoma, with the study expected to finish in the second half of 2015.

"The addition of Caprelsa represents a strong strategic fit for our rare
Endocrinology portfolio and underscores Genzyme's commitment to addressing unmet
needs in the thyroid community," said David Meeker, M.D., Genzyme's President
and CEO. "We look forward to bringing our rare disease expertise to appropriate
patients with advanced stage thyroid carcinoma."

The acquisition builds on Genzyme's long-standing commitment and scientific
leadership in the field of endocrinology globally. Under the terms of the
agreement, Genzyme will pay AstraZeneca up to $300 million, including an upfront
payment of $165 million to acquire the global rights to sell and further develop
Caprelsa, and further development and sales milestone payments of up to $135
million. The transaction does not include the transfer of any AstraZeneca
employees or facilities.

Luke Miels, Executive Vice President, Global Product & Portfolio Strategy and
Corporate Affairs, AstraZeneca, said: "Caprelsa is a rare disease therapy and
the divestment to Genzyme, an expert leader in endocrinology, demonstrates our
commitment to ensure patients continue to have access to this medicine while we
sharpen our focus on key disease areas."

The transaction is subject to closing conditions, including the receipt of
antitrust clearance from the US Federal Trade Commission. The transaction is
expected to complete in the second half of 2015.

CAPRELSA (vandetanib) US Indication

CAPRELSA is indicated for the treatment of symptomatic or progressive medullary
thyroid cancer in patients with unresectable locally advanced or metastatic
disease.

Use CAPRELSA in patients with indolent, asymptomatic or slowly progressing
disease only after careful consideration of the treatment related risks of
CAPRELSA.

Important Safety Information, Including Boxed WARNING, for CAPRELSA

WARNING: QT PROLONGATION, TORSADES DE POINTES, AND SUDDEN DEATH

* CAPRELSA can prolong the QT interval. Torsades de pointes and sudden death
have occurred in patients receiving CAPRELSA

* Do not use CAPRELSA in patients with hypocalcemia, hypokalemia,
hypomagnesemia, or long QT syndrome. Correct hypocalcemia, hypokalemia and/or
hypomagnesemia prior to CAPRELSA administration

* Monitor electrolytes periodically

* Avoid drugs known to prolong the QT interval

* Only prescribers and pharmacies certified with the restricted distribution
program are able to prescribe and dispense CAPRELSA

* Do not use in patients with congenital long QT syndrome

* CAPRELSA can prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner.
Torsades de pointes, ventricular tachycardia and sudden deaths have occurred in
patients treated with CAPRELSA

* Do not start CAPRELSA treatment in patients whose QTcF interval (corrected QT
interval, Fridericia) is greater than 450 ms or who have a history of Torsades
de pointes, bradyarrhythmias, or uncompensated heart failure. CAPRELSA has not
been studied in patients with ventricular arrhythmias or recent myocardial
infarction

* Stop CAPRELSA in patients who develop a QTcF greater than 500 ms until QTcF
returns to less than 450 ms. Dosing of CAPRELSA can then be resumed at a reduced
dose

* Because of the risk of QT prolongation, obtain an ECG and serum potassium,
calcium, magnesium, and thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) at baseline, 2-4 weeks
and 8-12 weeks after starting treatment with CAPRELSA, and every 3 months
thereafter. Following any dose reduction or interruptions greater than 2 weeks,
conduct QT assessments as described above

* Severe skin reactions (including Stevens-Johnson syndrome), some leading to
death, have occurred in patients treated with CAPRELSA. Consider permanent
discontinuation of CAPRELSA for severe skin reactions

* Photosensitivity reactions can occur during CAPRELSA treatment and up to 4
months after treatment discontinuation

* Interstitial lung disease (ILD) or pneumonitis, including fatalities, has
occurred in patients treated with CAPRELSA. Interrupt CAPRELSA for acute or
worsening pulmonary symptoms and discontinue CAPRELSA if ILD is confirmed

* Ischemic cerebrovascular events, including fatalities, occurred in patients
treated with CAPRELSA. The safety of resumption of CAPRELSA therapy after
resolution of an ischemic cerebrovascular event has not been studied.
Discontinue CAPRELSA in patients who experience a severe ischemic
cerebrovascular event

* Serious hemorrhagic events, including fatalities, occurred in patients treated
with CAPRELSA. Do not administer CAPRELSA to patients with a recent history of
hemoptysis of >=1/2 teaspoon of red blood. Discontinue CAPRELSA in patients with
severe hemorrhage

* Heart failure, including fatalities, occurred in patients treated with
CAPRELSA. Monitor for signs and symptoms of heart failure. Consider
discontinuation of CAPRELSA in patients with heart failure. Heart failure may
not be reversible upon stopping CAPRELSA

* Diarrhea of Grade 3 or greater severity occurred in patients receiving
CAPRELSA. If diarrhea occurs, carefully monitor serum electrolytes and ECGs to
enable early detection of QT prolongation resulting from dehydration. Interrupt
CAPRELSA for severe diarrhea and upon improvement resume CAPRELSA at a reduced
dose

* Increased dosing of thyroid replacement therapy was required in 49% of
CAPRELSA-treated patients. Obtain TSH at baseline, at 2-4 weeks and 8-12 weeks
after starting treatment with CAPRELSA, and every 3 months thereafter. If signs
or symptoms of hypothyroidism occur, examine thyroid hormone levels and adjust
thyroid replacement therapy accordingly

* Hypertension, including hypertensive crisis, has occurred in patients treated
with CAPRELSA. Monitor all patients for hypertension. Dose reduction or
interruption for hypertension may be necessary. If hypertension cannot be
controlled, do not resume CAPRELSA

* Reversible posterior leukoencephalopathy syndrome (RPLS) has occurred in
patients treated with CAPRELSA. Consider this syndrome in any patient presenting
with seizures, headache, visual disturbances, confusion or altered mental
function. In clinical studies, three of four patients who developed RPLS while
taking CAPRELSA also had hypertension. Discontinue CAPRELSA treatment in
patients with RPLS

* Avoid administration of CAPRELSA with anti-arrhythmic drugs and other drugs
that may prolong the QT interval

* Vandetanib exposure is increased in patients with impaired renal function.
Reduce the starting dose to 200 mg in patients with moderate to severe renal
impairment and monitor the QT interval closely. There is no information
available for patients with end-stage renal disease requiring dialysis

* CAPRELSA is not recommended for patients with moderate and severe hepatic
impairment, as safety and efficacy have not been established

* CAPRELSA can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman. Women of
childbearing potential should avoid pregnancy and be advised that they must use
effective contraception during CAPRELSA treatment and for at least 4 months
following the last dose of CAPRELSA

* The most commonly reported adverse drug reactions (>20%) seen with CAPRELSA
and with a between arm difference of >=5% are diarrhea/colitis (57%), rash
(53%), acneiform dermatitis (35%), hypertension (33%), nausea (33%), headache
(26%), upper respiratory tract infections (23%), decreased appetite (21%), and
abdominal pain (21%)

* CAPRELSA REMS Program: Because of the risks of QT prolongation, Torsades de
pointes, and sudden death, CAPRELSA is available only through the CAPRELSA REMS
Program. Only prescribers and pharmacies certified with the restricted
distribution program are able to prescribe and dispense CAPRELSA. To learn about
the specific REMS requirements and to enroll in the CAPRELSA REMS Program, call
1-800-236-9933 or visit www.caprelsarems.com

Source: Sanofi

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2015 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              402 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                        July 27, 2015 Monday 6:30 AM EST

Genzyme Strengthens Endocrinology Portfolio with Acquisition of Rare Disease
Therapy Caprelsa (vandetanib) from AstraZeneca

LENGTH: 1390  words


July 27 -- Genzyme, a Sanofi company, today announced that it has entered into a
definitive agreement with AstraZeneca to acquire Caprelsa (vandetanib), a rare
disease therapy, indicated for the treatment of symptomatic or progressive
medullary thyroid carcinoma in patients with unresectable locally advanced or
metastatic disease.

Caprelsa is an oral kinase inhibitor treatment and is currently available in 28
countries. Caprelsa is in Phase III development for differentiated thyroid
carcinoma, with the study expected to finish in the second half of 2015.

"The addition of the Caprelsa represents a strong strategic fit for our rare
Endocrinology portfolio and underscores Genzyme's commitment to addressing unmet
needs in the thyroid community," said Genzyme's President and CEO, David Meeker,
M.D. "We look forward to bringing our rare disease expertise to appropriate
patients with advanced stage thyroid carcinoma."

The acquisition builds on Genzyme's long-standing commitment and scientific
leadership in the field of endocrinology globally. Under the terms of the
agreement, Genzyme will pay AstraZeneca up to $300 million, including an upfront
payment of $165 million to acquire the global rights to sell and further develop
Caprelsa, and further development and sales milestone payments of up to $135
million. The transaction does not include the transfer of any AstraZeneca
employees or facilities.

Luke Miels, Executive Vice President, Global Product & Portfolio Strategy and
Corporate Affairs, AstraZeneca, said: "Caprelsa is a rare disease therapy and
the divestment to Genzyme, an expert leader in endocrinology, demonstrates our
commitment to ensure patients continue to have access to this medicine while we
sharpen our focus on key disease areas."

The transaction is subject to closing conditions, including the receipt of
antitrust clearance from the US Federal Trade Commission. The transaction is
expected to complete in the second half of 2015.

CAPRELSA (vandetanib) US Indication

CAPRELSA is indicated for the treatment of symptomatic or progressive medullary
thyroid cancer in patients with unresectable locally advanced or metastatic
disease.

Use CAPRELSA in patients with indolent, asymptomatic or slowly progressing
disease only after careful consideration of the treatment related risks of
CAPRELSA.

Important Safety Information, Including Boxed WARNING, for CAPRELSA

WARNING: QT PROLONGATION, TORSADES DE POINTES, AND SUDDEN DEATH

* CAPRELSA can prolong the QT interval. Torsades de pointes and sudden death
have occurred in patients receiving CAPRELSA

* Do not use CAPRELSA in patients with hypocalcemia, hypokalemia,
hypomagnesemia, or long QT syndrome. Correct hypocalcemia, hypokalemia and/or
hypomagnesemia prior to CAPRELSA administration

* Monitor electrolytes periodically

* Avoid drugs known to prolong the QT interval

* Only prescribers and pharmacies certified with the restricted distribution
program are able to prescribe and dispense CAPRELSA

* Do not use in patients with congenital long QT syndrome

* CAPRELSA can prolong the QT interval in a concentration-dependent manner.
Torsades de pointes, ventricular tachycardia and sudden deaths have occurred in
patients treated with CAPRELSA

* Do not start CAPRELSA treatment in patients whose QTcF interval (corrected QT
interval, Fridericia) is greater than 450 ms or who have a history of Torsades
de pointes, bradyarrhythmias, or uncompensated heart failure. CAPRELSA has not
been studied in patients with ventricular arrhythmias or recent myocardial
infarction

* Stop CAPRELSA in patients who develop a QTcF greater than 500 ms until QTcF
returns to less than 450 ms. Dosing of CAPRELSA can then be resumed at a reduced
dose

* Because of the risk of QT prolongation, obtain an ECG and serum potassium,
calcium, magnesium, and thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) at baseline, 2-4 weeks
and 8-12 weeks after starting treatment with CAPRELSA, and every 3 months
thereafter. Following any dose reduction or interruptions greater than 2 weeks,
conduct QT assessments as described above

* Severe skin reactions (including Stevens-Johnson syndrome), some leading to
death, have occurred in patients treated with CAPRELSA. Consider permanent
discontinuation of CAPRELSA for severe skin reactions

* Photosensitivity reactions can occur during CAPRELSA treatment and up to 4
months after treatment discontinuation

* Interstitial lung disease (ILD) or pneumonitis, including fatalities, has
occurred in patients treated with CAPRELSA. Interrupt CAPRELSA for acute or
worsening pulmonary symptoms and discontinue CAPRELSA if ILD is confirmed

* Ischemic cerebrovascular events, including fatalities, occurred in patients
treated with CAPRELSA. The safety of resumption of CAPRELSA therapy after
resolution of an ischemic cerebrovascular event has not been studied.
Discontinue CAPRELSA in patients who experience a severe ischemic
cerebrovascular event

* Serious hemorrhagic events, including fatalities, occurred in patients treated
with CAPRELSA. Do not administer CAPRELSA to patients with a recent history of
hemoptysis of 1/2 teaspoon of red blood. Discontinue CAPRELSA in patients with
severe hemorrhage

* Heart failure, including fatalities, occurred in patients treated with
CAPRELSA. Monitor for signs and symptoms of heart failure. Consider
discontinuation of CAPRELSA in patients with heart failure. Heart failure may
not be reversible upon stopping CAPRELSA

* Diarrhea of Grade 3 or greater severity occurred in patients receiving
CAPRELSA. If diarrhea occurs, carefully monitor serum electrolytes and ECGs to
enable early detection of QT prolongation resulting from dehydration. Interrupt
CAPRELSA for severe diarrhea and upon improvement resume CAPRELSA at a reduced
dose

* Increased dosing of thyroid replacement therapy was required in 49% of
CAPRELSA-treated patients. Obtain TSH at baseline, at 2-4 weeks and 8-12 weeks
after starting treatment with CAPRELSA, and every 3 months thereafter. If signs
or symptoms of hypothyroidism occur, examine thyroid hormone levels and adjust
thyroid replacement therapy accordingly

* Hypertension, including hypertensive crisis, has occurred in patients treated
with CAPRELSA. Monitor all patients for hypertension. Dose reduction or
interruption for hypertension may be necessary. If hypertension cannot be
controlled, do not resume CAPRELSA

* Reversible posterior leukoencephalopathy syndrome (RPLS) has occurred in
patients treated with CAPRELSA. Consider this syndrome in any patient presenting
with seizures, headache, visual disturbances, confusion or altered mental
function. In clinical studies, three of four patients who developed RPLS while
taking CAPRELSA also had hypertension. Discontinue CAPRELSA treatment in
patients with RPLS

* Avoid administration of CAPRELSA with anti-arrhythmic drugs and other drugs
that may prolong the QT interval

* Vandetanib exposure is increased in patients with impaired renal function.
Reduce the starting dose to 200 mg in patients with moderate to severe renal
impairment and monitor the QT interval closely. There is no information
available for patients with end-stage renal disease requiring dialysis

* CAPRELSA is not recommended for patients with moderate and severe hepatic
impairment, as safety and efficacy have not been established

* CAPRELSA can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman. Women of
childbearing potential should avoid pregnancy and be advised that they must use
effective contraception during CAPRELSA treatment and for at least 4 months
following the last dose of CAPRELSA

* The most commonly reported adverse drug reactions (>20%) seen with CAPRELSA
and with a between arm difference of 5% are diarrhea/colitis (57%), rash (53%),
acneiform dermatitis (35%), hypertension (33%), nausea (33%), headache (26%),
upper respiratory tract infections (23%), decreased appetite (21%), and
abdominal pain (21%)

* CAPRELSA REMS Program: Because of the risks of QT prolongation, Torsades de
pointes, and sudden death, CAPRELSA is available only through the CAPRELSA REMS
Program. Only prescribers and pharmacies certified with the restricted
distribution program are able to prescribe and dispense CAPRELSA. To learn about
the specific REMS requirements and to enroll in the CAPRELSA REMS Program, call
1-800-236-9933 or visit www.caprelsarems.com.

Source: Genzyme

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2015 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              403 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                      August 5, 2015 Wednesday 6:30 AM EST

ArQule Reports Second Quarter 2015 Financial Results

LENGTH: 1092  words


Aug. 5 -- ArQule, Inc. (Nasdaq:ARQL) today announced its financial results for
the second quarter of 2015.

For the quarter ended June 30, 2015, the Company reported a net loss of
$4,017,000 or $0.06 per share, compared to a net loss of $6,339,000 or $0.10 per
share, for the second quarter of 2014. For the six-month period ended June 30,
2015, the Company reported a net loss of $8,568,000 or $0.14 per share, compared
to a net loss of $13,480,000 or $0.22 per share for the six-month period ended
June 30, 2014.

At June 30, 2015, the Company had a total of $48,001,000 in cash, equivalents
and marketable securities.

Key Highlights

* Phase 3 METIV-HCC trial for tivantinib progressing as expected: Enrollment in
the pivotal Phase 3 trial for tivantinib in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC)
continues on track to complete patient accrual by year end. The trial targets a
biomarker-defined patient population, is randomized 2:1 and will enroll
approximately 300 patients with the primary end-point of overall survival.

* Phase 2 trial for ARQ 087 in intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma (iCCA) begins
enrollment: The Phase 2 trial in iCCA with ARQ 087 follows the observation of
two confirmed partial responses in this patient population in the Phase 1
portion of the program. ARQ 087 is a small molecule, multi-kinase inhibitor
designed to preferentially inhibit the fibroblast growth factor receptor (FGFR)
family. The FGFR2 gene fusion is a pre-defined biomarker being used to enroll
patients in the trial.

* Positive feedback from the FDA on the Phase 1 trial for ARQ 092 in Proteus
syndrome: Our collaborators at the National Institute of Health (NIH) received
positive feedback from the FDA on the design of the Phase 1 trial for Proteus
syndrome, and we expect the IND to be filed imminently. ARQ 092 is a small
molecule designed to inhibit the AKT serine/threonine kinase. Proteus syndrome
is a rare disease driven by the AKT1 mutation.

* Increasing signs of efficacy in our Phase 1b trial for ARQ 092 in oncology: A
Phase 1b trial is on-going in lymphoma, endometrial and other cancers harboring
the AKT1 mutation. ARQ 092 continues to produce single agent responses, most
recently in a breast cancer patient harboring the AKT1 mutation.

"We continue to be pleased with the robust rate of enrollment in the METIV-HCC
trial with tivantinib as second-line therapy in MET-high HCC patients," said
Paolo Pucci, chief executive officer of ArQule. "In addition, recent data from
an investigator-initiated, Phase 2 study of tivantinib in combination with
cetuximab in MET-high, KRAS wild-type metastatic colorectal cancer presented by
Dr. Lorenza Rimassa at the ESMO World Congress on Gastrointestinal Cancer
further underscores the therapeutic activity of tivantinib in the MET-high
patient population."

"ArQule's proprietary pipeline continues to mature," said Dr. Brian Schwartz,
head of research and development. "Our AKT inhibitor, ARQ 092, is on track to
enroll its first patient in the third quarter in the Phase 1 trial in Proteus
syndrome, a rare disease that is caused by a mutation in the AKT1 gene.
Moreover, in the oncology portion of the ARQ 092 clinical program we have
observed five patients with confirmed partial responses, four of which came in
the Phase 1b enriched cohort and two of which had the same AKT1 mutation which
occurs in Proteus syndrome. This is an evolving story that we continue to
pursue."

"In all of our studies, with tivantinib, ARQ 087 and ARQ 092, our strategy of
conducting biomarker driven clinical trials with small molecules in areas of
high unmet need demonstrates our leadership in precision medicine and more
importantly our commitment to deliver therapies for our patients on an expedited
basis," said Mr. Pucci.

Revenues and Expenses

The Company reported research and development revenue of $3,004,000 for the
quarter ended June 30, 2015, compared with $2,901,000 for the quarter ended June
30, 2014. For the six-month period ended June 30, 2015, research and development
revenue for the company was $5,789,000, compared with $5,577,000 for the
six-month period ended June 30, 2014.

Research and development revenue in the three and six months ended June 30, 2015
is comprised of revenue from the Daiichi Sankyo tivantinib development agreement
and the Kyowa Hakko Kirin exclusive license agreement for tivantinib. The
revenue increase in the three and six month periods is due to higher revenue
from our Daiichi Sankyo tivantinib program.

Total costs and expenses for the quarter ended June 30, 2015 were $7,103,000
compared to $9,307,000 for the second quarter of 2014. For the six-month period
ended June 30, 2015, total costs and expenses were $14,703,000 compared with
$19,288,000 for the six-month period ended June 30, 2014.

Research and development costs for the three and six months ended June 30, 2015
were $4,327,000 and $8,740,000 respectively, compared with $6,236,000 and
$12,967,000 for three and six-month periods of 2014.

Research and development expense in the quarter ended June 30, 2015 decreased by
$1.9 million primarily due to lower labor related costs of $0.8 million related
to the August 2014 restructuring, outsourced clinical and product development
costs of $0.4 million, lab expenses of $0.3 million, and facility costs of $0.3
million.

Research and development expense in the six months ended June 30, 2015 decreased
by $4.3 million primarily due to lower labor related costs of $1.7 million
related to the August 2014 restructuring, outsourced clinical and product
development costs of $1.1 million, lab expenses of $0.6 million, facility costs
of $0.5 million and other costs of $0.3 million.

General and administrative expense for three and six-month periods ended June
30, 2015 were $2,776,000 and $5,963,000 respectively, compared to $3,071,000 and
$6,321,000 for the three and six-month periods of 2014. General and
administrative expense decreased in the three and six months ended June 30, 2015
principally due to lower non-cash stock compensation cost.

Conference Call and Webcast

ArQule will hold its second quarter financial results call today, August 5, 2015
at 9:00 a.m. ET. The live webcast can be accessed in the "Investors and Media"
section of our website, www.arqule.com, under "Events". You may also listen to
the call by dialing (877) 868-1831 within the U.S. or (914) 495-8595 outside the
U.S. A replay will be available two hours after the completion of the call and
can be accessed in the "Investor and Media" section of our website,
www.arqule.com, under "Events".

Source: ArQule

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2015 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              404 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                              Anadolu Agency (AA)

                           February 5, 2015 Thursday

Turkish Press Review

LENGTH: 467 words


Turkish dailies on Thursday focused on reactions to Bank Asya's takeover by the
Turkish banking authority Wednesday, and human story of baby, who suffers from
very rare disease

ISTANBUL

The Anadolu Agency does not verify these stories and does not vouch for their
accuracy.

Turkish dailies Thursday focused mostly on the reactions to Bank Asya's takeover
by the Turkish banking authority on Wednesday, and a human story about a baby,
who suffers from a very rare disease, Crigler-Najjar syndrome, and his desperate
father's unique endeavor to save his child.

"It was about to be bankrupt, we took over," headlined Daily TURKIYE, referring
to Bank Asya facing headwinds before Turkey's banking watchdog intervened and
handed down the management of the bank to the Savings Deposit Insurance Fund
(TMSF), a state-run body.

TURKIYE said the bank, seen as linked to the so-called Fethullah Gulen movement,
closed down 80 branches and announced 301 million lira in losses.

SABAH ran a similar headline citing TMSF, which appointed a new board to manage
the bank, and said the takeover came to protect the Turkish economy from the
burden of a bankrupt bank.

SABAH continued with TMSF's statement as it said the bank lacked transparency
and the move aims to open the bank for further inspection.

HABETURK featured in its first page a baby, who had genetically heritable
Crigler-Najjar syndrome that only 202 people have in the world, struggling to
survive only through his poor family's creative combat.

His father Servet Ergun had a machine built at an organized industrial site that
Poyraz, the three-month-old baby, needs. The father Servet paid only 550 Turkish
lira ($225) for the phototherapy machine, which normally costs more than 10,000
lira ($4,080) and placed his son in it.

Servet chose this way as he could not afford the bill of a private hospital,
which charges the family 380 Turkish lira ($155) for one night of therapy.

VATAN said the baby's sister had the same disease, but was cured when her
mother, Zeliha, donated a piece of her liver 16 years ago to save her life. The
same operation is currently not possible for Poyraz due to his young age.

In other news, VATAN headlined "Oath of revenge," referring to Jordan's king,
who reportedly said that retaliation for the death of the Jordanian pilot would
be like Clint Eastwood's in the movie Unforgiven.

The daily quoted King Abdullah II as ordering the Jordanian military to bomb
Islamic State and the Levant bases until it "runs out of arsenal and oil."

ISIL militants burned alive a Jordanian pilot, who fell in the hands of the
group after his fighter jet was brought down during bombardment as part of
airstrikes by a U.S.-led coalition.

Jordan hanged two Iraqi terrorists, who were requested by ISIL in a possible
prisoner swap with the pilot.

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 400


                          Copyright 2015 Andolu Ajansi
                Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.(Syndigate.info)
                              All Rights Reserved


                              405 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                      The Vancouver Sun (British Columbia)

                            March 24, 2005 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Rare diseases fall through funding gap: Government won't cover $17,000-a-week
treatment for boy, 9, with genetic disorder

BYLINE: Sutton Eaves and Sean Myers, CanWest News Service

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. D12

LENGTH: 614  words


OTTAWA -- Mackenzie Olsen is just one of dozens of rare disease patients in
Canada who are left without treatment, and perhaps a future, because the
government has no strategy for funding costly but potentially life-saving
therapies.

The nine-year-old Alberta boy, who suffers from an unusual genetic disorder
called Hurler-Schele syndrome, must wait until at least July for Ottawa to
decide if it will pay for his $17,000 per week enzyme replacement therapy.

Mackenzie, a status Indian from the Siksika tribe in Alberta, can afford only
half-doses of the drug Aldurazyme since company-funded clinical trials finished
recently.

Hurler-Schele syndrome, caused by a lack of a certain enzyme called
aL-iduronidase, is eventually fatal, but first causes loss of sight, hearing and
speech, as well as swelling of organs such as the heart and lungs. It's
irreversible.

Mackenzie's parents can't fathom why their boy won't be covered for the
treatment when another child is receiving money from Health Canada for the same
drug to treat a different condition.

"We need help to keep our little boy alive," said his father, Raymond Amato.
"It's not only our son, there are other children out there suffering with this
same disease that are being cut off, if they haven't been cut off already. We
need help for all these children, not just our son."

When asked Wednesday if there's anything he'll do to help the boy, Health
Minister Ujjal Dosanjh said he's "not God" and the treatment must be assessed by
a common drug review before the government decides if it's cost-effective to
supply.

But this has outraged the boy's parents and the Assembly of First Nations who
want at least interim coverage for Olsen until the review is completed.

"The provinces do not provide coverage for First Nations and the federal
government refuses to cover the costs in this case," AFN Yukon regional chief
Rick O'Brien said Wednesday. "This little boy deserves a chance at life, cost
should not be a factor when it comes to somebody's life."

Mackenzie's treatment, which should be covered by the First Nations Inuit Health
Branch, is just one of several similar therapies caught up in the government's
new drug review process and unavailable to most patients in the interim.

Enzyme replacement therapy for Fabry's disease patients -- called Fabrazyme --
was put through the review in the fall but rejected because it didn't meet
cost-effective standards. After an outpouring of opposition from patients, the
$300,000 a year treatment was sent for a second review, expected to end in May.

"I think that is a scientific issue and that's not an issue that a politician
should be involved in," said Dosanjh. "If politicians start stepping in on
individual cases then I'll be asked to step in every day."

But in Alberta, the government has offered its 15 Fabry's patients a "bridging
program" to cover their treatment until a permanent funding decision is made.

"This is a national regulatory problem as well," said Alberta Health Minister
Iris Evans after making the announcement last week.

Rare disease specialist Dr. Joe Clarke at the Hospital for Sick Children says
the government's position calls into question one of the cornerstones of
Canada's health care system -- accessibility.

"It comes down to an equity issue. If you happen to be born with a rare disease,
you do not have the same access to new, groundbreaking treatments as people who
have more common diseases. And in fact, simply by being rare, you may not be
treated at all, ever," said Dr. Clarke.

A handful of his MPS I patients in Toronto stopped their Aldurazyme treatments
when clinical trials finished.

"It's a justice issue. I'd like to see a just solution."

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:
Photo: Lorraine Hjalte, Calgary Herald; Mackenzie Olsen needs enzyme replacement
therapy that is not covered under health care. His condition is potentially
fatal.

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2005 CanWest Interactive, a division of CanWest Global Communications
                                     Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              406 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                               The Ottawa Citizen

                   January 15, 1998, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

Rare disease kills woman: Autopsy to determine if death caused by flesh-eating
bacteria

BYLINE: JOANNE LAUCIUS; THE OTTAWA CITIZEN

SECTION: CITY; Pg. D3


An local woman has died of what may be flesh-eating disease.

Cindy Farrar, a Kanata mother of two, died on Sunday. Her husband, Dave Farrar,
refused to comment when contacted at the couple's Kanata Lakes home on
Wednesday.

Local health officials would only confirm that a middle-aged woman was seen at
the Queensway-Carleton Hospital on Saturday and transferred to the Ottawa
General Hospital soon afterwards.

The woman was diagnosed with invasive Group A Streptococcal disease, which
includes necrotizing fasciitis, often called "flesh-eating disease."

The woman died on Sunday, said Dr. Ed Ellis, Ottawa-Carleton associate medical
officer of health.

Everyone who may have come in contact with the victim has been identified and
has been put on preventative antibiotics.

However, doctors are awaiting the autopsy report, expected today, before they
can confirm that the death was caused by necrotizing fasciitis or the related
toxic shock syndrome.

"At this point, I can't say if it was necrotizing fasciitis or toxic shock
syndrome. It's speculative at this point," said Dr, Ellis.

Funeral services for Ms. Farrar were being held today at 10 a.m. at the Kelly
Funeral Home in Kanata.

The death, if confirmed as the fleshing-eating disease, would be the second
caused by the rare disease within a month.

Gary Wheeler, a 34-year-old south-end Ottawa man, died Dec. 12. The 22 friends
and neighbours who were at his bedside when he died were advised to take
antibiotics.

Strep A bacteria are very common. It most often causes skin rashes and strep
throat. The bacteria is often present on the skins and throats of many people.

But necrotizing fasciitis is very unusual, resulting in only about one case for
every 300,000 people a year.

There were four cases of flesh-eating disease in Ottawa-Carleton in 1997 and
only one person died of the disease, said Dr. Ellis. There were two local cases
of toxic shock syndrome in 1997, but no deaths.

Invasive Strep A can also cause a form of meningitis. There were 13 other forms
of Strep A reported in the region in 1997. Of these patients, two died.

Although the disease is contagious and can be transmitted in bodily secretions,
cases are very rare. In Ontario, there are usually about 25 cases a year.

The disease gets its name because it destroys the lining between muscles, called
the fascia. The bacteria release toxins, causing flu-like symptoms. A reddened
area around a cut or abrasion can become inflamed and spread.

Early symptoms of the disease include pain around a wound or bruise that seem
out of proportion to the injury, said Dr. Ellis. Redness and swelling also
travel quickly, often by more than two centimetres an hour. If any of those
symptoms appear, call a doctor, he advised.

Parents should also be aware that Group A Strep can follow a case of the chicken
pox. If fever doesn't come down by the third day or if lesions become inflamed,
call a doctor, said Dr. Ellis.

Although flesh-eating disease can occur in clusters, as it did recently in
Virginia, there is really little cause for people who have had casual contact
with an affected person to worry, said Dr. Donald Low, chief of microbiology at
Mount Sinai Hospital in Toronto.

Doctors expect to see the disease from time to time. "Every hospital has a few
cases over a year or so," said Dr. Raphael Saginur, chief of infectious diseases
at the Ottawa Civic Hospital.

Flesh-eating disease attracts attention far out of proportion to the number of
deaths it causes.

"Often, this is a disease that affects relatively healthy individuals," said Dr.
Low. "When things like that happen, it makes people aware of how fragile life
is. You see previously-healthy flesh become gangrenous."

Necrotizing fasciitis is usually treated with antibiotics. If flesh is
destroyed, it must be surgically removed to prevent spreading.

It's a perplexing illness. Necrotizing fasciitis was first described by
Hippocrates, the Greek "father of medicine," about 2,500 years ago. However,
necrotizing fasciitis only officially became a reportable disease in 1995, about
the same time Quebec Premier Lucien Bouchard lost a leg and nearly died from a
highly-publicized case of flesh-eating disease.

Doctors have yet to understand why some people get the disease while the vast
majority do not. It's possible that some people must have a genetic
susceptibility, said Dr. Low.

Although penicillin easily kills the bacteria in the lab, it's a lot more
complicated than that when the bacteria has invaded in a patient's body, said
Dr. Saginur.

Researchers still don't know what toxins created by the bacteria are responsible
for the disease. Dr. Low pointed out that part of the reason the disease
advances so quickly is because the patient's tissues inflame far too much, an
over-reaction to the toxins.

One of the difficult things for doctors is to recognize it the problem early on,
said Dr. Saginur.

"I would suspect that many doctors have never seen a case. It's not easy to be
expert on something you never see in practice," he said.



LOAD-DATE: January 16, 1998

LENGTH: 851 words

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 1998 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              407 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                             Ottumwa Courier (Iowa)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           December 4, 2014 Thursday

Arnold faces different rare diagnosis

BYLINE: Danielle Lunsford, Ottumwa Courier, Iowa

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 722 words


Dec. 04--OTTUMWA -- Nearly one year ago Ashley Arnold's life changed forever.
Rather than planning her son Ryder's first birthday, she began to make trips to
area hospitals and watched as doctors performed countless tests on her infant.

"Last year, on Jan. 1 he was first diagnosed, so we are considering this our
first year fighting 'rare.' We consider Ryder to be rare, and we fight something
rare every day," said Arnold while wearing a T-shirt that read "someone I love
needs a cure."

On New Year's Day, Ryder was diagnosed with Neutropenia, which means he has an
abnormally low count of neutrophils, a type of white blood cell that helps fight
off infections within the body. Doctors all over the Midwest have aided in the
fight to find out exactly what rare disease is causing the abnormality in the
happy infant's body. Arnold explained that if a child suffers from a rare
disorder, it is not uncommon to have multiple diagnoses before an accurate
diagnosis can be made.

In the months following the news of Ryder's illness, the family has accepted
several diagnoses including viral, autoimmune, Shwachman-Diamond syndrome, Barth
syndrome and most recently Complex 1 Deficiency, a mitochondrial disease.

"We had gotten the diagnosis of Barth, and we were planning a trip to [a
hospital in] Cincinnati. Then when I sent them the genetic report, we found out
we wouldn't be going anymore because it's not a bone marrow failure disorder,"
explained Arnold. "They had their genetic doctor look at it and they disagreed
with the Barth diagnosis; they believe he has a NUBPL gene mutation, which has
nothing to do with Barth."

During the time the Arnold family believed Ryder suffered from Barth syndrome,
the proactive mom spent her days making connections with families in similar
situations. She worked to build a sturdy group of supporters, all of whom were
rooting for a Barth cure, but when she was informed of a new diagnosis, she
called the news surprising and described it as "getting the rug pulled out from
under" her.

"We had a diagnosis, we knew what was going on and we found a great support
group and we were going to be OK; now it feels like we have to start all over
again," explained Arnold. "I haven't found that sense of community again quite
yet, so thankfully the Barth moms said they would still be there to support us.
They told me, 'You're one of us now' because even though we aren't going against
Barth, we are still fighting a mitochondrial disease."

Although the diagnosis might change, the support and determination shown by
Arnold does not waiver. She explained she spends much of her time caring for her
son, finding support groups that she can learn from and raising awareness for
rare diseases. A change in diagnosis does change things for the Arnold family;
however, Arnold continues to be thankful that they have a diagnose to battle at
all.

"Technically we have been pretty lucky; we are reaching his one-year anniversary
with Neutropenia. There are a lot of families that go years without even knowing
what direction to go. We are pretty lucky in the sense that we know he has a
mitochondria dysfunction somewhere, and it's probably in this gene that they
found that was mutated. To stay positive, I think about that," said Arnold.

To celebrate the one-year anniversary of Ryder's fight and to raise money for
the his treatment at the Mayo Clinic, the family will be hosting an event at the
Elks Lodge beginning at 3 p.m. Jan. 10. The event will feature a superhero
certification ceremony, provide kids the opportunity to fight an evil villain
and give Ryder an excuse to continue to wear his orange Super Ryder cape. The
celebration will bring in countless members of the Ryder's Support League, give
others a chance to learn about his journey and snack on some bake sale goods.

"It's terrifying to think of what could happen, that he could someday become a
shell of the little boy he is right now, but so far we have been lucky
throughout out this journey," explained Arnold as she drove toy trucks across a
table with her smiling son.

-- Danielle Lunsford is a staff writer at the Ottumwa Courier and can be reached
at dlunsford@ottumwacourier.com

___ (c)2014 the Ottumwa Courier (Ottumwa, Iowa) Visit the Ottumwa Courier
(Ottumwa, Iowa) at www.ottumwacourier.com Distributed by Tribune Content Agency,
LLC

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20141204-OT-Arnold-faces-different-rare-diagnosis-1204-20141204

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: OT


                         Copyright 2014 Ottumwa Courier


                              408 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               The Deal Pipeline

                             March 19, 2013 Tuesday

NPS buys back global rights to Gattex

BYLINE: by Ben Fidler

LENGTH: 596 words


NPS Pharmaceuticals Inc.'s dreams of becoming a global player in rare-disease
therapies came closer to fruition on Tuesday as the company reacquired worldwide
rights to two treatments, including its flagship short-bowel syndrome drug,
Gattex.

NPS, of Bedminster, N.J., has obtained worldwide rights to Gattex and a
recombinant human parathyroid hormone known as PTH 1-84 from Takeda
Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd. In return, NPS will give Takeda $50 million worth of its
common stock, which is equal to a 7% stake.

Takeda also gets a potential $30 million milestone payment during the first
calendar year if both drugs exceed $750 million in combined worldwide sales. NPS
can pay Takeda in either cash or stock.

The relatively modest transactions give NPS worldwide rights to two drugs that
have the potential to succeed in orphan indications, known as such for their
small patient populations, high price tags and longer patent lives.

Wall Street praised the move, sending NPS's shares up more than 9%, to $9.88,
from a $9.04 close on Monday.

Gattex is a once-daily injection for short-bowel syndrome, which occurs when
nutrients aren't properly absorbed into the bloodstream because a part of the
small intestine is either missing or has been surgically removed (such
procedures are often the result of intestinal diseases, injuries or birth
defects).

NPS won approval for the drug in Europe and the U.S. in August and December,
respectively. The drug is known as Revestive in Europe.

NPS senior vice president and chief commercial officer, Eric Pauwels, said on a
conference call with analysts on Tuesday that the company has filled 72
prescriptions for Gattex so far and expects to have between 200 and 300 patients
on the drug by the end of 2013.

NPS has priced the drug at $295,000 for a year of treatment and has said that it
expects Gattex eventually to top $350 million in U.S. sales.

"Frankly, we know that we will," president and CEO Francois Nader told analysts
on the call.

PTH 1-84, meanwhile, is already approved for osteoporosis in post-menopausal
women, but NPS has been testing the drug under the brand name Natpara to treat
hypoparathyroidism, a rare condition that occurs when the thyroid doesn't
produce enough parathyroid hormone and thus leaves a patient with low calcium
levels. NPS aims to file an application with the FDA regarding Natpara in the
second half of the year.

NPS handed Nycomed International Management GmbH international rights to Gattex
in 2007 as part of a licensing deal worth a total of $185 million. NPS
prioritized Gattex, as well as other orphan indications, as part of a turnaround
aimed at reinventing the company as a rare-disease powerhouse in the mold of
BioMarin Pharmaceuticals Inc., Alexion Pharmaceuticals Inc. and even Genzyme
Corp. (now owned by Sanofi).

While Nycomed's help aided NPS in getting Gattex through the clinic, NPS was
given an opportunity to create its own worldwide portfolio when Takeda
Pharmaceutical bought Nycomed outright in 2011. Takeda doesn't specialize in
rare drugs, so it handed them over to NPS and structured a deal so that it can
take part in any potential upside.

With full rights to the drugs, NPS is ready to roll out globally, even
announcing on Tuesday that it has hired former Genzyme executive Sandy Smith as
a consultant and wants to seek approval of both drugs in various key countries
outside of Europe, such as Japan.

"Establishing an international presence was a key initiative that was identified
as part of our long-term strategic plan," Nader said on the call.

DEAL SIZE

$ 50-250 Million

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Article

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                        Copyright 2013 The Deal, L.L.C.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              409 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                               Belfast Telegraph

                            February 20, 2012 Monday
                                 First Edition

'People do make silly remarks, but we just think: oh, get over it'

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 479 words


You can tell Bernie Drayne (52) has a good relationship with her daughter, Roma
(19), from the way she talks about her. "Yes, we're definitely best friends,"
she said.

But the two Lisburn women are closer than most mothers and daughters as Roma
suffers from rare inherited condition Morquio's Syndrome. As Bernie said: "We
spend most of our time in each other's company."

It wasn't until Roma, who remains just 97cm tall, was about one and a half that
physical problems began to surface. Her mother said: "Naturally I was thrilled
with my daughter, but realised she never grew out of her clothes although she
was a great eater -- better than her brothers. I took her to the doctor and he
noticed her wrists were floppy. Then my sister-in-law picked her up one day and
saw her ribcage protruding."

After repeated GP visits, the Draynes were referred to the Royal Hospital where
they got a rapid diagnosis of the syndrome that affects around 15 people in
Northern Ireland. It causes a variety of symptoms, including short stature.

Bernie said: "I remember a consultant read off this long name, then told me what
might happen. I thought: 'We won't be able to deal with this.' I remember
M-People's hit Search For The Hero was playing on the radio and even now it
makes me shiver."

Of course, the whole family -- father Kevin and brothers Kilian (16) and Peter
(13) -- have located that heroism. Bernie says their genetic consultant, Dr
Fiona Stewart at the City Hospital, has also helped make life easier.

"She's been a life saver and acts as an advocate for us, writing letters if need
be," she said. She also acknowledges support from Rare Disease UK. "We're
supporting Rare Diseases Day on February 29."

After coming to terms with what Morquio's might mean for Roma ("It was awful, I
hid the leaflet with a girl on the front in a wheelchair for a month,") the
Draynes got on with life and Roma, a gifted girl, has got on with her education.

She started primary school and Friends Grammar School with metal brace called a
halo fixed to her head and back.

"We had to work out our own ideas about her clothes and washing, as it didn't
come off for nine months," she said.

In spite of the tiredness that goes with Morquio's, Roma took her GCSEs and is
studying for A-levels in religion and history.

Roma has good support, with a special classroom assistant and personal
assistant, Laura, who takes her shopping and to the cinema at weekends. But the
teenage girl, who loves Harry Potter and her Lord of the Rings box set, would
like better treatment from the rest of us.

As Bernie says: "Sometimes people look at Roma and make silly remarks about the
wheelchair, and I think, 'Get over yourselves.'

"You see your child as special, but you have to move on."

CAPTION: Best pals: Roma and Bernie Drayne Roma Drayne at her house in Lisburn
with her mother Bernie

CAPTION: russell pritchard/presseye

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BT


                Copyright 2012 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              410 of 997 DOCUMENTS

              Copyright 2017 GlobalData Ltd., All Rights Reserved
                         GlobalData - Company Statement

                                August 14, 2017

                           Newron Pharmaceuticals SpA

                            via Ludovico Ariosto 21
                                  Bresso 20091
                                     Italy

* * * * * * * * * * COMPANY STATEMENT * * * * * * * * * *
Overview:

   A joint statement by Mr. Ulrich Kostlin, the Chairman and Mr. Stefan Weber,
the Chief Executive Officer of Newron Pharmaceuticals SpA is given below. The
following company statement has been taken from the company's 2016 annual
report.

   We are delighted to report that the past year has been a success on a number
of fronts for Newron. Following the 2015 European approval of Xadago
(safinamide) and the launch in the first EU territory, Germany, 2016 saw the
launch of Xadago in ten further key European markets by our partner Zambon. We
made positive progress with our development product sarizotan, by initiating
both the potentially pivotal Sarizotan Treatment of Apneas in Rett Syndrome
(STARS) study in patients with Rett syndrome suffering from respiratory
symptoms, and the first Burden of Disease study with respect to this disease.
Post-period, we were also pleased to announce very encouraging preliminary
results from our Phase IIa study with Evenamide in patients with schizophrenia.

   In 2016, Xadago was launched by Zambon in Switzerland, Spain, Italy, Belgium,
Denmark, Sweden, the U.K., Luxembourg, The Netherlands, and Norway. The launch
of Xadago in these markets means that a large and increasing number of patients
across Europe â[#x20ac]" including four of the five key EU pharmaceutical
territories â[#x20ac]" can be treated using Xadago , the first New Chemical
Entity in ten years to receive Marketing Authorization from the EU Commission
for the treatment of Parkinson's disease. Post-period, Zambon and Seqirus
announced having entered into a partnership for the registration and
commercialisation of Xadago in Australia and New Zealand. Once Xadago is
approved by the regulators in both of these territories, we hope that many more
patients can begin using Xadago for the treatment of Parkinson's disease.
Eighteen months on from the initial launch of Xadago in Germany, we have
generated cumulated royalty revenues of EUR 2.2 Mio. on product sales by Zambon.

   Following the disappointing news in March that the FDA had issued a CRL for
Xadago , we were delighted to announce in July, alongside our partners U.S.
WorldMeds and Zambon, that the FDA no longer required Newron to perform any
studies to clinically evaluate the potential abuse liability or
dependence/withdrawal effects of Xadago , the key subject of the CRL. We
welcomed the announcement from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in
October that it considers the September 2016 re-submission of the U.S. NDA by
Newron to be a complete Class 2 response to FDA's March 28, 2016 Complete
Response Letter (CRL). The FDA has determined the user fee goal date (PDUFA
date) to be March 21, 2017. We are hopeful that Xadago will be approved in the
USA on or before its PDUFA date and that it will become available to U.S.
patients, soon.

   In May, the FDA approved our Investigational New Drug (IND) application for
the evaluation of sarizotan for the treatment of patients with Rett syndrome.
Following this approval, in July we initiated the STARS study. This potentially
pivotal clinical study will evaluate the efficacy, safety and tolerability of
sarizotan in patients with Rett syndrome suffering from respiratory symptoms.
The initiation of the STARS study is an exciting milestone in our development
program for sarizotan and we look forward to reporting the results of the trial
in due course. As per December 31, 2016, the study is enrolling patients in both
the USA and Europe.

   We announced in June that, as part of our wider commitment to addressing the
needs of Rett syndrome patients, we are sponsoring a study to evaluate the
burden of disease experienced by patients with this debilitating condition and
their families. The study will be comprised of two global surveys, one to be
completed by at least 750 caregivers and the other by at least 210 healthcare
providers (HCP). Both will examine patient burden, with the caregiver survey
additionally evaluating caregiver burden. The surveys have been developed in
accordance with regulatory guidance, with the final versions being used for data
collection in the United States, the United Kingdom, Italy, Germany and the
Netherlands. In 2016, we were proud to recognise the Rare Disease Day, the World
Parkinson's Disease Awareness Day, as well as the Rett Symposium. These global
initiatives all help to raise awareness of rare diseases and Parkinson's disease
respectively and we fully support their mission to improve the lives of both
rare disease and Parkinson's disease patients.

   In April 2016, we presented a poster at the 5th Biennial Schizophrenia
International Research Society Conference. The abstract was titled Evenamide
(NWâ[#x20ac]"3509), a Putative Antipsychotic, Targets Abnormal Electrical
Activity and Glutamatergic Abnormalities in Improving Psychotic Symptoms in
Patients with Schizophrenia in a Phase II, Placebo- controlled Trial. The very
encouraging results of this Phase IIa study we were pleased to announce post
period in January 2017. Evenamide met the study objectives of good tolerability,
safety, and preliminary evidence of efficacy as an add-on therapy for the
treatment of schizophrenia. Detailed results of the study will be presented at
the 16th International Congress on Schizophrenia Research (ICOSR), March
24â[#x20ac]"28, in San Diego, CA, USA. We are strengthening our development and
commercial resources in preparation of the potential commercialization of
sarizotan. This was most prominently evidenced by the change in senior
management that we announced close to the end of the year, promoting Dennis
Dionne to Vice President Commercial Affairs. Dennis Dionne replaces Anders
Haegerstrand on the Senior Management Team. Anders will leave the Company
effective June 30, 2017, to pursue his professional career outside of Newron and
we are grateful to him for his contributions to Newron.

   In 2016, Newron â[#x20ac]" by placing new shares to investors â[#x20ac]"
raised total funds of EUR 26.8 Mio. of which EUR 3.0 Mio. related to the
exercise, in March, of a purchase option for 209,364 shares by a shareholder
under a 2015 subscription and option agreement, while the remaining EUR 23.8
Mio. resulted from a private placement executed in October. We intend to use the
net proceeds of these fundraisings for financing our operations and development
programs, with a focus on orphan indications within the CNS field. Alongside, we
will continue to review products and product candidates that need certain
regulatory and development efforts to repurpose them and that could contribute
to the objective of a sustainable pipeline of development projects. Including
the proceeds from fundraising, we started into 2017 with funds totaling about
EUR 46.5 Mio., which we expect to take the Company towards the end of 2018,
beyond expected key value inflexion points.

   The past year has been very positive for Newron, particularly now that Xadago
is available to patients in eleven countries across Europe. We look forward to
the result of the pending PDUFA date for Xadago and are confident that in 2017,
we will see Xadago become available to patients in the USA. We are also clearly
excited about the potential of both sarizotan and Evenamide and we look forward
to continuing the development of both in the coming year. As always, we would
like to thank our loyal shareholders for their ongoing commitment and support.
Our innovative pipeline of CNS drugs is progressing well and we look forward to
updating our shareholders on the progress as we build and strengthen our
position as a leading player in the CNS disease area.
* * * * * * * * * * OTHER AVAILABLE REPORTS * * * * * * * * * *
Business Description                    Company Investment Analysis
Corporate Strategy                      Company Overview
Company Product Pipeline Analysis       Company Statement
Events                                  Financial Ratios
History                                 Investments
Key Employee Biographies                Key Employees
Key Facts                               Locations and Subsidiaries
Major Products and Services             SWOT Analysis
Top Competitors

 * * * * * * * * * * NOTE * * * * * * * * * *

   GlobalData uses a range of research techniques to gather and verify its
information and analysis. These include primary research, in-house knowledge and
expertise, proprietary databases, and secondary sources such as company
websites, annual reports, SEC filings and press releases. Disclaimer: No part of
this publication may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system or transmitted
in any form by any means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording or
otherwise, without the prior permission of the publisher, GlobalData. The facts
of this report are believed to be correct at the time of publication but cannot
be guaranteed. Please note that the findings, conclusions and recommendations
that GlobalData delivers will be based on information gathered in good faith
from both primary and secondary sources, whose accuracy we are not always in a
position to guarantee. As such GlobalData can accept no liability whatever for
actions taken based on any information that may subsequently prove to be
incorrect.

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2017


                              411 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                Cornish Guardian

                               December 30, 2009

Couple try to save sight of boy with rare syndrome;
The parents of a Newquay boy who died from a rare disease have been helping a
young boy from Pakistan with the same condition.

SECTION: Pg. 11

LENGTH: 413  words


The parents of Joe Way, who died from Steven Johnson Syndrome (SJS) last year,
helped Pakistani boy Ali Ghazi, who has terrible eye damage due to the disease,
come to the UK for treatment.

Four-year-old Ali has Steven Johnson Syndrome (SJS) - a rare, debilitating
adverse drug reaction, which has attacked his skin and eyes, stopping him from
holding up his head because of the pain from light sensitivity.

Newquay boy Joe Way also contracted SJS and the youngster tragically died on May
27 last year.

Helen Milne, president and founder of the Milne Stevens Johnson Syndrome Society
in British Columbia, Canada, contacted Joe's parents to ask for their help after
receiving a request for help from Ali's father in Pakistan.

Working together with other parents whose children suffer from the condition,
Newquay couple Matt and Claire Way agreed to help get Ali over to the UK, where
his condition could be looked at by expert surgeons. The family flew to the UK
in July.

After several operations in August, the family decided to stay on in the UK for
the month of Ramadan, in order to start fund-raising for the next stage of
treatment.

Artificial cornea

Patricia Roberts from Yorkshire, who co-ordinated the UK help, said: "The
prognosis was not as optimistic as we had hoped.

"Unfortunately, Ali's eyes are too dry to enable stem cell treatment to be
carried out; therefore the family have returned home for a while to think about
the next stage of treatment."

"It may be possible for Ali to be fitted with an artificial cornea in the
future, but at the moment, he is too young for it to have any chance of success,
and the surgeons have advised against any further intervention at this stage."

Matt Way said: "We have been very humbled by Ali's story and privileged to have
been of some assistance.

"I had an e-mail from his father this week, very excited about a place at a
special school to help Ali, and continued treatment in Pakistan. Neither was
offered before his UK visit, so the real success of this story has been the
continuation of his long term care."

Matt continued: "We were so taken with Ali's plight, as he was the same age as
Joe when he suffered his reaction. You cannot explain what someone goes through
when they suffer from SJS.

"It made us grateful that Joe lived in a country with such great medical staff,
as he had another 18 months of life for us to all enjoy"

To read Ali's story in full, and to find out more about Joe Way's story, go to
http://www.joeway.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 59


                        Copyright 2009 Cornish Guardian
                              All Rights Reserved


                              412 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                        Las Cruces Sun-News (New Mexico)

                             August 4, 2015 Tuesday

Sun-News staffer's perplexing affliction with rare disease

BYLINE: By Alexia Severson aseverson@lcsun-news.com @AlexiaMSeverson on Twitter

SECTION: HEALTH

LENGTH: 1547 words


LAS CRUCES &GT;&GT; While we all know about some of the most common risk factors
for cancer, such as smoking, alcohol, exposure to the sun's harmful rays,
obesity and genetics, sometimes even the most healthy people, who have no
history of cancer, can find themselves facing this deadly disease.

On April 15, Sun-News Digital Brand Manager Ryan Chip, 29, was diagnosed with
adrenocortical carcinoma, a very rare disease in which cancer forms in the outer
layer, or cortex, of an adrenal gland, located at the top of the kidneys. The
adrenal glands are responsible for making hormones that balance water and salt
in the body, keep blood pressure normal and control the body's use of protein
fat and carbohydrates. Before being diagnosed, Chip was rushed to the emergency
room on April 13, after experiencing a severe pain on the right side of his
abdomen and in his shoulder.

"Different people told us different statistics," said Mona Chip, Ryan's wife.
"But the one that really stood out, for me, was that this type of cancer is only
.02 percent of all cancer cases. Virtually every other cancer case is something
'not this,' so that was mind boggling to me."

Because adrenocortical carcinoma is so rare and few doctors have experience with
this form of cancer, it took doctors several days to properly diagnose Ryan, his
wife said.

"They just figured there's a large mass in the vicinity of the liver, it must be
on the liver, but it wasn't. It was the adrenal gland," she said.

Mona Chip said she and her husband were shocked that he had cancer at all
because of his good health and young age. But they were ready to take the next
steps in getting rid of the cancer and in the beginning, doctors sounded
positive about the outcome. Ryan was eventually sent to Houston Methodist
Hospital in Texas to see a doctor who specialized in adrenocortical carcinoma
and had worked with more than 100 patients for that particular type of cancer,
Mona Chip said.

Plans for treatment were made and Ryan had a chemo port surgically implanted on
Friday, May 15, and was later released from the hospital. That same day, Mona
Chip said her husband felt something wasn't right and they returned to the
hospital.

"It was really shocking when the doctor came in and said it's just too advanced.
It was in the blood," she said. "Tuesday (May 19), we got the news that it was
terminal."

He was taken to Mesilla Valley Hospice where he passed away in his sleep during
the early morning hours on May 20, about five weeks after he was diagnosed.
Closer look

Because adrenocortical carcinoma is so rare, less is known about this form of
cancer and few clinical studies exist to provide valuable research for treating
the disease, said Dr. William Adler, medical director and clinical research
director for the Memorial Medical Center Cancer Center. However, certain
symptoms and causes are known.

Some of the symptoms of adrenocortical carcinoma include a lump in the abdomen,
pain in the abdomen or back and a feeling of fullness in the abdomen, according
to the National Cancer Institute .

"Sometimes (adrenocortical carcinomas) can show up sporadically and sometimes
they can be part of an inherited syndrome," Adler said.

Some examples of these hereditary diseases include Li-Fraumeni Syndrome, a rare,
inherited predisposition to multiple cancers, caused by an alteration in the p53
tumor suppressor gene; Beckwith-Wiedemann syndrome, an overgrowth disorder in
which babies are large at birth and may develop low blood sugar, and Carney
Complex, a syndrome marked by dark spots on the skin and tumors in the heart,
endocrine glands, skin, and nerves, according to the National Institutes of
Health.

"If someone has a an inherited syndrome or history of cancer, then they may want
to talk to a genetics counselor about that and ask what their risk is," Adler
said. "With any kind of abnormality in the body, if it gets better, it's
typically not cancer. But if something is persistent, like back pain for eight
or nine months, and doctors have tried things and it didn't work, eventually you
have to do more than presume that something is benign, but at what point is the
hard part."

Unfortunately, with extremely rare cases of cancer, like in Ryan Chip's case,
it's almost impossible to be on the lookout for a cancer that effects only about
one to two people in one million per year in the U.S., he said.

"For the rare (cancers), there's not very much information," he said. "We know
what's triggering them, but we don't know why they come about."

There is also little known about why some people with cancer fare better than
others.

"Whether a cancer is aggressive or not varies greatly," Adler said. "You can't
say how something is going to behave based on where the organ of origin is."

While some people can die within the first year of being diagnosed with a deadly
cancer, others can live five years out, or more, he said.

Along with inherent makeup, other factors that affect a person's chance of
recovery depend on the stage of the cancer, whether the tumor can be completely
removed in surgery, whether the cancer has been treated in the past, a patient's
health and the grade of tumor cells, according to NIH.

Adler said in order to continue to understand different types of cancer, and
particularly the rare ones, it's important for people who have been affected by
cancer to be open to the idea of participating clinical studies.

"The way we learn about how to treat cancer is research," he said. "We run
clinical research trial programs (at MMC Cancer Center) and we're part of the
University of New Mexico Cancer Center, so we have national and international
cancer studies going on here."The aftermath

Mona Chip said while her husband only had cancer for a short period of time,
because it was so aggressive, he was very open about sharing his experience with
it from the beginning.

"Even shortly after he was diagnosed, he wanted to do something to help others
who also had cancer," she said.

Before his diagnosis, Mona Chip and her husband had never heard of
adrenocortical carcinoma and the idea of one of them being faced with cancer was
never on their radar.

"It's one thing to know, 'Oh, that must be tough,'" she said. "But I had no idea
how complex it was   and not just the medical aspect of all the doctor's
appointments and medications and 'do this' and 'don't do this,' and the
knowledge of all the things that you have to suddenly learn and the medical
terminology, but socially, it's hard on your relationships, emotions and
spirituality. It's opened my eyes to really appreciate and have a lot of respect
for people living with cancer and in cancer treatment."

Mona Chip said the experience also gave her a new perspective on the culture and
language surrounding cancer.

"I know a lot of people use the phrase 'fight cancer' or 'battle with cancer,'"
she said. "I really don't like that language because I think there's a game
connotation attached to that. Before you go into a fight or battle, you prepare
and you train and then when you go into the fight or battle, you do your best
and whether you win or lose is a result of that effort. But in this case, that's
really frustrating because I feel like he did his best   we did our best   and
to say he lost the battle with cancer is insulting to me. I don't think people
mean it that way. There's no easy way to talk about it. Overall, it's
challenging to know what to say, whether you're in it or your friend or loved
one is in it."

As part of the healing process, Mona Chip said she tries focus on the good
memories of her husband rather than the way he was at the end.

"Ryan was kind and generous, but also sharp and witty," she said. "He had an
infectious laugh and easygoing personality that made him a blast to be around.
Ryan was a hard worker but also appreciated a good weekend of pizza and video
gaming. Most of all, Ryan welcomed people as they are, quirks and all. He cared
for people so much, especially his family, friends and colleagues. He was my
best friend and I miss him so much."

Before he died, Ryan Chip had wanted to get involved with CARE (Cancer Aid
Resource and Education, Inc.), a local nonprofit located at 125 N. Main St.,
Suite 114, that provides financial assistance to cancer patients in Doca Ana
County. For more information about CARE and how you can get involved or make a
donation, visit carelascruces.org or call 575-680-5922 or 575-649-0598. Those
interested in getting involved in a clinical study can call the MMC Cancer
Center at 575-521-1554.

Alexia Severson may be reached at 575-541-5462. Deadliest cancers

Common cancers that have a less than 50 percent five-year survival rate:

1. Pancreas

2. Liver

3. Lung

4. Esophagus

5. Stomach

6. Myeloma

7. Brain

8. Ovary

Source: Deadliest Cancer Coalition, deadliestcancers.org .

Help for those facing cancer

What: Cancer Aid Resource & Education Inc.

Mission: CARE is dedicated to establishing or assisting in services, resources,
general education and other additional services that help address challenges
many Doca Ana County cancer patients, children and adults, face while receiving
treatment for any type of cancer, with no cost to local cancer patients.

Where: 125 N. Main Street, Suite 114

Info: Call Yoli Diaz at 575-680-5922 or 575-649-0598 or visit carelascruces.org
.

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Former Sun-News employee Ryan Chip with his wife Mona Chip.
Ryan Chip with his grandfather George Chip Sr. Ryan Chip was diagnosed with an
extremely rare form of cancer on April 15. He died on May 20.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


        Copyright 2015 Las Cruces Sun-News, a MediaNews Group Newspaper
                              All Rights Reserved


                              413 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                 Ottawa Citizen

                           December 3, 2016 Saturday
                                 Early Edition

Working To Corral 'Wild West' Of Drugs;; Why An Advocate For Those With Rare
Diseases Opposes Right-To-Try Legislation,

BYLINE: Joanne Laucius, Ottawa Citizen

SECTION: OBSERVER; Pg. B2

LENGTH: 829 words


It might seem ironic that a man who has spent the past decade fighting to get
drug access for patients with rare conditions opposes right-to-try legislation.

In 2006, Andrew McFadyen attracted nationwide attention for his campaign to
access treatment for his two-year-old son, Isaac, who has the metabolic disorder
Maroteaux-Lamy syndrome, known as MPS VI. The condition is so rare only a
handful of people in Canada have it.

It is also devastating. Among other conditions, it causes stunted growth,
skeletal changes, breathing problems, clouded corneas and heart-valve
dysfunction. "We were told he would dead by his midteens," McFadyen says.

Then McFadyen learned about Naglazyme, a drug not yet been approved for use in
Canada.

The drug could stave offthe relentless advance of MPS VI. It would also cost
between $300,000 and $1 million a year.

McFadyen applied to Health Canada for special access to the drug for Isaac and
learned he could get it if the province reimbursed the cost. He won that
publicity battle. Naglazyme was approved seven years ago. McFadyen, who lives
with his family near Campbellford, a small town between Peterborough and
Belleville, is now executive director of the Isaac Foundation, an organization
that funds research into treatments for rare diseases. He left his job as an
elementary teacher 21/2years ago.

As the head of a non-profit group, McFadyen has access to a small salary and
gets unrestricted educational grants from drug companies. Last year, he spent
220 days on the road, often working with the families of patients with rare
diseases to get access to both unapproved and experimental drugs.

Still, McFadyen opposes passing right-totry legislation in Canada.

He insists that existing access structures in place through Health Canada's
Special Access Programme are adequate.

"These drugs are highly needed. Nobody understands this better than I do. I
still walk into my son's room every single night to see if he's still breathing.
But Special Access is not a barrier. Health Canada just wants to see that it's
done in a regulated manner."

People are "incredibly naive" about the kinds of drugs and treatments that are
out there, he says. At the same time, he worries access to these drugs would
open up what he calls the "Wild West."

Vulnerable patients could be at the mercy of drug companies selling potions they
know don't work, he argues.

Drug companies could charge whatever they want, and families would be on the
hook for debts caused by experimental treatments, even if the patient dies.

Accessing unapproved drugs through the Special Access Programme leads to a
proper review of all safety and efficacy data by an objective third party before
any drug is given to a patient, McFadyen says.

"Health-care providers and hospitals feel more comfortable providing an
unapproved drug to a patient, knowing that it's been properly vetted and looked
at by Health Canada. Under right-to-try, Health Canada's vetting essentially
disappears," he says. "I feel patients don't fully understand what could
happen."

He's also concerned about the wording of a piece of "draft legislation" that
right-totry campaigners have circulated. The draft includes proposed measures to
imprison or fine "any provider of a potential life-saving treatment who
knowingly fails to comply

with this act or the regulations."

That's dangerous, says McFadyen.

"There are many reasons why a physician may not want to treat a patient with an
unapproved drug.

"Patients may only have enough money for partial dose, the data is not there to
show that it works or is truly safe, more harm than good could come from
treating."

It's hard for patients to provide true informed consent, he says.

"Patients aren't objective when making a decision to try an unapproved drug.
Their physicians need to be."

McFadyen admits the two sides of the argument have similar goals - to get
lifechanging drugs and treatments to people who desperately need them. "We both
want timely access to these drugs. We both want the same thing. But these
systems are in place to protect patients and industry."

As for Isaac, now 12, Naglazyme has not been a miracle cure. But it has bought
time. "Without it, we would be looking at double hip replacements, blindness,
hydrocephalus (fluid in brain)," McFadyen says.

He says he hopes in the next few years his son will be able to take advantage of
a gene therapy treatment in development.

It's a one-time infusion in which a harmless virus carrying "fixer DNA" that
cleans up cellular waste is injected into the patient's bloodstream. The virus
then heads into the liver and populates the patient's body.

McFadyen says his family may seek access during Phase 3 of the clinical trial,
after the treatment's safety and efficacy have been demonstrated.

"With gene therapy, you only get to have one infusion. We want to ensure Isaac
gets in at the most efficacious dose and ensure the safety profile is there."
!@COPYRIGHT=© 2016 Postmedia Network Inc. All rights reserved.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: / Andrew McFadyen, here with his son Isaac, is the executive director
of the Isaac Foundation and has spent the last decade fighting for drug access
for patients with rare conditions. Isaac was diagnosed with the metabolic
disorder Maroteaux-Lamy syndrome, known as MPS VI, shortly after birth. People
are "incredibly naive" about the kinds of drugs and treatments that are out
there, McFadyen says.;

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2016 Ottawa Citizen
                              All Rights Reserved


                              414 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                              Chicago Daily Herald

                            January 6, 2015 Tuesday

Remembering TJ

BYLINE: By Korrina Grom, Daily Herald correspondent

SECTION: NEIGHBOR; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 660 words


TJ Willis has lost his battle with Menkes syndrome, but his mom said she knows
her young son will make a difference in the world.

"We feel like if we can save one little boy, we've done what we needed to do for
TJ," Darcy Willis said.

Six-month-old TJ died Christmas Eve from the rare, terminal genetic disease he
was diagnosed with when he was 16 weeks old. Born June 19, TJ initially spent
two weeks in the neonatal intensive care unit. He was hypothermic and had kinky
hair, which Willis said she later learned are common indicators of Menkes.

"But most doctors don't know about Menkes," said Willis, who added TJ was
released from the hospital even though he had a temperatures of 94 or 95
degrees. "They'd say he was clinically fine, but that (the temperature) was just
a weird thing."

Willis, who grew up in Glencoe, and her husband, Tom, who is from Lake Forest,
knew something wasn't right, especially when TJ started having feeding issues.

"Most Menkes kids have a feeding intolerance," Willis said. "He was weeping in
pain."

Initially, doctors thought TJ was suffering from ectodermal dysplasia, which
causes abnormal development in areas such as skin, hair and teeth. However, an
X-ray of TJ's mouth, showed he had perfect teeth, eliminating that possibility.

The Chicago family consulted with a genetic doctor at the Ann & Robert H. Lurie
Children's Hospital.

"Within two minutes, (Dr. Brad Angle) said TJ either had Menkes or he was fine,"
Willis said. An initial blood test showed an abnormally low amount of copper.
Menkes is a copper transport syndrome, Willis said, and copper is needed for
proper brain development.

A genetic test confirmed the Menkes gene mutation six weeks later. Willis noted
while Menkes is typically passed from mother to child, a genetic test confirmed
she was not a carrier of the syndrome. Menkes occurs in one in every 100,000 to
250,000 live births, Willis said. The wide range, she said, is attributed to
most health professionals not knowing about Menkes.

According to the Menkes Foundation, the disease prohibits the intestines from
absorbing copper. A variety of symptoms can result, including kinky hair,
feeding problems, seizures, respiratory problems and brittle bones.

What makes the diagnosis difficult is symptoms typically don't appear until
after a few months, Angle said.

"They're rarely diagnosed in the first few months of life unless there's a
genetic link," he said.

Angle said most children with the disease die within the first few years of
life, though some uncommon, milder cases can result in children living into
their teens. Darcy Willis said her goal now is raising awareness about Menkes in
hopes of saving at least one life.

"It's pretty rare, but not rare enough that people are never going to see this,"
she said. "It's a terminal disease, but there is a (copper) treatment if they
are treated within the first 10 days of life. It's critical that people learn
about this so kids can get treatment in time."

The Menkes Foundation aims to spread the word about Menkes, and it's a cause
Willis has embraced. She shares her family's story and regular updates in a
blog, supportingtj.weebly.com/updates.html.

"More people, including doctors, should know about this. It's all about early
diagnosis," she said.

Dara Dietmeyer, Willis' sister-in-law, said it's clear through Willis' blog
posts "her faith is carrying through this difficult time."

"She has always had an incredible bond with my brother, Tom, and this
unfortunate situation has brought them even closer, if that's possible,"
Dietmeyer said. "TJ's diagnosis of Menkes syndrome is devastating, but Darcy is
taking a difficult situation and trying to make it positive. She is raising
awareness to this disease with the hope that it can help another family or
doctor diagnose the illness sooner."

Willis said she leans a lot on family and faith to get her through the rough
days.

"I do believe that we're doing this with God and God's leading us," she said.

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Courtesy of Willis family Six-month-old TJ was diagnosed with the rare,
terminal disease Menkes syndrome when he was 16 weeks old. He died Christmas
Eve. Courtesy of Willis family Six-month-old TJ was diagnosed with the rare,
terminal disease Menkes syndrome when he was 16 weeks old. He died Christmas
Eve.Courtesy of Willis family The Willis family with 6-month-old TJ, who died
Christmas Eve from the rare disease, Menkes syndrome. Darcy Willis is holding
TJ. while Dad Tom, and big sister, Kendall, look on. Courtesy of Willis family
The Willis family with 6-month-old TJ, who died Christmas Eve from the rare
disease, Menkes syndrome. Darcy Willis is holding TJ. while Dad Tom, and big
sister, Kendall, look on.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 Paddock Publications, Inc.


                              415 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                             June 12, 2012 Tuesday

Rare Hunter syndrome haunts Kolkata boy

BYLINE: Subhro Niyogi

SECTION: INDIA

LENGTH: 605 words


KOLKATA: Afflicted with a rare disease that requires a fortune to treat, the
parents of a 10-year-old boy in Shibpur, Howrah, are groping in the dark even as
their son gradually slips into an abyss.

Arian Chowdhury is suffering from the Hunter syndrome, a genetic disease caused
by mutation that leads to deposition of biomolecules in cells. As cells get
progressively clogged, organs begin to fail, causing death. One in 2,00,000
suffers from the disease. Except in developed nations, most patients die young
with parents unable to afford the lifelong treatment of Rs 1 crore a year.

In severe cases, children survive till 11-12 years. Arian's case is less severe.
Doctors say he may live till 17-18. "His bones have become stiff and he is
unable to bend his fingers or toes. There is facial deformity and his liver has
enlarged. But his brain is still fine. The only way to arrest his condition is
by injecting a critical enzyme that is deficient in his body," said child
specialist and Institute of Child Health director Apurba Ghosh.

Enzyme replacement therapy is now available for the syndrome. But the vials are
too expensive for any individual to afford the treatment that costs around Rs 2
lakh a week. Arian's father Sib Sankar Chowdhury, who has a modest job in a
private firm, has written to all, including drug manufacturer Shire US
Manufacturing Inc and to the state government. But there has been no response
from any quarter.

"It feels so helpless to see Arian's condition deteriorate, more so knowing
there is a treatment available. The cost is so enormous that we can't expect it
to be met by individual benevolence. Only the government can urge the drug firm
to be more generous," said Chowdhury.

While he has become stoic after learning about their son's disease in 2006, his
wife Debjani is unable to come to terms with their son's short life and
prolonged death. "How can we give up on our boy?" she wondered aloud. Though
they can conceive another child and get a pre-natal test done to ensure it does
not suffer from the disease, neither parent is willing to think beyond Arian.

Arian, their only child, was born on 24 February 2002. It was when he turned two
that a local homeopathic doctor heard a wheezing sound from the heart and
suspected a cyst. A visit to the local cardiologist and an eco-cardiography
revealed that one of the four valves in the heart was thicker than the rest.

The couple then took their child to a specialist in Rabindranath Tagore
International Institute of Cardiac Sciences, where a third visit to paediatric
surgeon Biswajit Bandyopdhyay revealed the problem was not in the heart but
elsewhere and he referred the case to Ghosh.

As soon as Ghosh saw Arian he knew he again had the dreaded syndrome case in his
hands. He immediately referred the case to Christian Medical College in Vellore.
There, a 24-hour urine test confirmed the syndrome. But to know the missing
enzyme, the Chowdhurys had to take their child to Sir Gangaram Hospital in
Delhi, where a test found that iduramate-2-sulphatate was the missing enzyme.

The news that a treatment is available brought joy but was short-lived when they
learnt how prohibitive the cost was. "There are two types of views about rare
diseases: one is that patients should be treated as individuals and not
commodities; the other is that given the multiple problems in India, the state
cannot spare scarce resources on individuals. It is difficult to buy the latter
when thousands of crores of rupees are lost in corruption. Arian does deserve a
future and our political leaders owe it to them," said Ghosh.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              416 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                             The Telegraph (India)

                              May 15, 2017 Monday

Barely 6, he deserves to live a happy, long life - Kid in capital battles rare
disease, govts do little to help

BYLINE: Achintya Ganguly

LENGTH: 633  words


When the world observes MPS Awareness Day on Monday, a Ranchi couple will keep
their fingers crossed for a windfall to save their only son who suffers from the
rare metabolic disorder called mucopolysaccharidosis or MPS.

Five-and-a-half-year-old Shaurya has been enduring MPS-II or Hunter Syndrome -
an inherited condition caused by a deficient or absent enzyme - for the past
three years. Joint stiffness, enlarged liver and spleen, and respiratory
distress are among the many things that keep the little boy confined to his
room. He cannot play with his nine-month-old sister nowadays, let alone go to
school.

Treatment for Hunter Syndrome that has an average life expectancy of 10 years
comes at a premium. In Shaurya's case, enzyme replacement therapy will cost more
than a crore a year. Parents Richa and Saurav Singh, residents of Argora Chowk
area in the capital, have been running from pillar to post seeking government
and private support, but in vain so far.

Father Saurav, who works with a private telecom service provider, said Shaurya
was diagnosed with MPS-II by Christian Medical College, Vellore, in March 2014
when he was only two years old. His rare condition was, subsequently, confirmed
by AIIMS in Delhi.

Doctors said the child could be treated, but with enzymes that are not
manufactured in India. And, imported vials evidently cost a fortune. While
anxious father Saurav has approached both state and Union governments, doting
mother Richa, a homemaker, has moved a petition on social media. The petition
won over 81,000 votes of sympathy, but that was all.

"I met our chief minister twice in 2015, once during a public hearing. We sought
audience with the Union health minister every time we were in Delhi for
Shaurya's treatment. I approached the PMO (Prime Minister's office), too,"
Saurav said.

Acting on a reference letter from Ranchi MP Ram Tahal Chowdhury, the PMO
sanctioned Rs 3 lakh this March to be transferred to AIIMS for Shaurya's
treatment.

"The hospital has given us an estimate of Rs 1.86 crore for our son's year-long
treatment and Rs 3 lakh may be the cost of just one vial of enzyme. Shaurya
needs 104 such vials in a year," Saurav said, adding that the aid from the PMO
would lapse in three months if they couldn't arrange the rest of the amount and
begin treatment.

Call it ignorance or apathy, the Jharkhand government doesn't include Hunter
Syndrome in its list of rare diseases that are covered under beneficiary
schemes.

"I even approached my employer, Idea Cellular, for financial help under the
company's CSR programme, but nothing happened," Saurav said, adding that he had
filed a writ petition in Jharkhand High Court for intervention. "The next date
of hearing is on May 16."

According to the father, pharmaceutical giant Shire that manufactures Hunter
Syndrome medicines in the US had not very long ago announced a charitable
programme, offering free vials to MPS-II patients.

"But, they closed the programme a month before Shaurya was diagnosed," Saurav
said, explaining why his request to Shire was not considered. "A child from
Howrah (Bengal) was luckier. He could avail that opportunity and is now doing
fine."

As uncertainty looms over his treatment, Shaurya - the only reported case of
MPS-II in Jharkhand till date - continues to suffer.

"Joint pain and breathing trouble don't let him sleep at night, and he is too
tired to attend school next morning," said mother Richa.

She made an emotional appeal for help: "Children of his age are playing in
school and making Mother's Day cards. It crushes my heart to think my son too
wants to do all that, but cannot. If help doesn't come through now, my only son
may not celebrate his 15th birthday."

Do you know of any social outfit that can help Shaurya? Tell ttkhand@abpmail.com
(mailto:ttkhand@abpmail.com)

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


        Copyright 2017 The Telegraph (India), distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              417 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                The Irish Times

                           February 28, 2012 Tuesday

Why the EU is good for our health

SECTION: HEALTH; News Focus; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 930 words


Eurocat, a European network of registries for the surveillance of congenital
anomalies, helps paint a comprehensive picture of the threats to health of
newborns throughout the EU and Ireland, writes  JOANNE HUNT

IT S EASY to forget that membership of the European Union might actually be good
for our health.

With an average of 5.4 million births in the EU s 27 member countries each year,
you might not know that the EU has for over 30 years been surveying congenital
anomalies and birth defects across its population.

Given that the majority of congenital anomalies have an occurrence of just five
out of 10,000 live births, many are classified as rare diseases. That number may
seem small, but it translates into approximately 246,000 people with rare
diseases throughout the EU s 27 member countries.

So while the families of children with rare diseases navigate a lonely course,
it might bring some comfort to know that data that can help them is in fact all
collated and analysed in Belfast.

Founded in 1979, Eurocat, a European network of population-based registries for
the surveillance of congenital anomalies, records information on major
congenital and chromosomal anomalies in live births, still births and where a
pregnancy is terminated because of a foetal anomaly.

There are about 40 registries of congenital anomalies and birth defects across
Europe,  according to the University of Ulster s Prof Helen Dolk, project leader
of Eurocat.

The information that each registry collects about each baby is sent to us here
at the central registry in Belfast and we analyse it.

The benefit to countries with a population as small as ours is that data about
Irish births can be used in conjunction with that of larger EU states to paint a
more comprehensive picture of the threats to health of newborns throughout the
EU.

The analysis of rates of babies born with neural tube defects such as spina
bifida is one example.

Tracking whether instances of spina bifida in babies born in Europe decreased
following high-profile campaigns to take folic acid, Eurocat found that they are
not actually having much success.

There is a fair level of knowledge among women that folic acid supplementation
is good in pregnancy and can prevent spina bifida, but the knowledge that it
needs to start pre-conceptually is not really there   so women may start to take
folic acid but they start too late,  Prof Dolk said.

Our work in the registry has been to show that despite the fact we ve got the
means to prevent neural tube defects, we re not actually having much success.
There are signs in the past five years that rates of neural tube defects have
come down a little bit but not as much as they could.

When it comes to Down syndrome, Prof Dolk said rates in Europe had gone up
because of increasing maternal age.

Ireland itself sticks out a little in not having terminations of pregnancy
there would be many more children born in Ireland with Down syndrome for example
than in many other European countries.

The Europe-wide registries also look at the effect of medication taken during
pregnancy on the health of the child.

We re looking at the risks relating to anti-epileptic medication exposure in
order to give women better advice on which anti-epileptic medications carry less
risk   that s an area where it s well known there are problems.

It requires a European registry to get enough data together to look at any of
this so we ll be looking at the effect of anti-depressants and anti-diabetes in
the near future too.

Prof Dolk said that data showed there had been a small decrease in rates of
congenital heart disease, although Eurocat is not yet quite sure why, but rates
of gastroschisis, an intestinal defect in babies, are on the way up.

Gastroschisis is associated with young child-bearing age, lower socio-economic
status, smoking, recreational drug use and low BMI   that would suggest poor
socio-economic status and poor health   that s been increasing particularly in
the UK but also across Europe.

She said a number of the European registries had also combined to look at issues
like the possible risks to residents living near landfill sites.

With three registries in Ireland gathering data in Dublin, the southeast, and
Cork and Kerry, data from about 60 per cent of births in the Republic is shared
with Eurocat. Prof Dolk said while this was  a fairly high coverage , Norway,
Sweden, Finland and Malta gathered data on 100 per cent of births.

It depends on the resources available in each country,  she said,  but Eurocat s
philosophy is that it s better to collect high quality data in one area than
poor quality data across the whole country.

The information gathered, she stressed, was anonymous and Eurocat does not
collect any identifying information. Irish parents, however, are not asked for
their permission for the anonymous data to be collected.

In very few countries is the parent asked permission. Where it s been tried, it
generally hasn t worked and it s meant that reporting has gone down, not because
parents have refused but because it s been difficult to contact parents.

Eurocat is just a part of what the EU is doing to tackle rare diseases and
Ireland, along with all member states, has been tasked with developing a
national strategy for rare diseases by 2013.

The Irish Genetic and Rare Disorders Organisation (GRDO) will be working with
patient groups here to ensure the Department of Health s plan will include fair
and equitable access to treatments for everyone with a rare disease.

Rare Disease Day is tomorrow. See  rarediseaseday.orgor  grdo.ie

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2012 The Irish Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              418 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                          December 21, 2016 Wednesday

Pennsylvania State Legislature Memoranda: Creation of Rare Disease Advisory
Council (previously HB 2402)

LENGTH: 250  words

DATELINE: New York



 Harrisburg: Pennsylvania State Legislature has issued the following Memoranda
updates:



 In the near future, I plan to reintroduce legislation (previously HB 2402) to
establish a Rare Disease Advisory Council within the Pennsylvania Department of
Health.





 According to the National Institutes of Health (NIH), one in 10 Americans live
with a rare disease. Rare diseases and disorders are those which affect small
patient populations, typically populations smaller than 200,000 individuals in
the United States. Such diseases and conditions include Huntington's disease,
Lou Gehrig's disease, Tourette syndrome, Chron's disease and Cystic Fibrosis,
among others. Of the nearly 7,000 rare diseases identified by the NIH, only
about 200 rare diseases have Food and Drug Administration-approved treatments.



 The establishment of a Rare Disease Advisory Council will create a unique
collaborative partnership between patients, providers, researchers, agencies and
insurers in an effort to improve the lives of those living with one of the 7,000
devastating rare diseases. The Council's focus will be on the needs of the rare
disease community and the actions necessary to address those needs.



 This legislation is a top priority for the Rare Disease Caucus and is supported
by the National Organization for Rare Disorders. I hope you will join me in
cosponsoring this important proposal.



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              419 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                      February 29, 2016 Monday 6:30 AM EST

Newron Pharmaceuticals Supports Rare Disease Day, Joins Global Movement to Raise
Awareness for Rare Diseases

LENGTH: 171  words


Feb. 29 -- Newron Pharmaceuticals S.p.A. ("Newron"), a biopharmaceutical company
focused on the development of novel therapies for patients with diseases of the
central nervous system (CNS) and pain, today announced it has joined forces with
300 million people living with rare diseases and health care advocates around
the world for Rare Disease Day, an annual global initiative dedicated to
elevating public understanding of rare diseases and calling attention to the
special challenges of people affected by these.

"We are proud to support NORD (The National Organization for Rare Disorders in
the USA) and EURORDIS (the European Organization for Rare Diseases) to raise
awareness for rare diseases and their devastating impact on patients' lives,"
said Stefan Weber, CEO of Newron, "We are particularly honored to support groups
such as Rettsyndrome.org and Curerett.org, who are dedicated to improving the
lives of girls living with Rett syndrome, which is one of more than 6,000 rare
diseases."

Source: Newron Pharmaceuticals

LOAD-DATE: February 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2016 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              420 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                 irishmirror.ie

                        May 1, 2017 Monday 10:53 AM GMT

Baby with rare 'easy bruising' condition reunited with parents falsely accused
of shaking daughter and causing brain damage;
Social workers dropped the case against the parents after hearing medical
evidence that little Effie suffers from a rare disease called EDS IV which
causes easy bruising

BYLINE: By Danya Bazaraa

SECTION: NEWS,UK NEWS; Version:1

LENGTH: 652 words


A couple who were suspected of shaking their baby have been reunited with their
child after it emerged she has a rare medical condition which causes "easy
bruising".

Craig Stillwell and Carla Andrews, both 23, spent nine months under
investigation after their daughter Effie suffered a bleed on the brain.

Doctors suspected her parents had harmed her, causing brain damage by shaking
her, and the baby was taken into care.

But social workers dropped the case against the parents after hearing medical
evidence that Effie suffers from a rare disease called EDS IV.

This is the first time a court has considered a child with the condition at a
fact finding hearing.

And now Miss Andrews has spoken out, saying: "I just wanted it out in the open
that we were found innocent and I don't really want other parents that may have
it to go through the same thing."

Mr Stillwell added: "We have been to hell and back fighting to get our daughter
back, it has been every parent's nightmare.

"Being accused of hurting your baby when your love them more than anything in
the world is excruciating."

The little girl was taken into emergency care last August after her parents
rushed her to hospital after she had collapsed and difficulty breathing.

But after an eleven-day hearing at Milton Keynes Famiy Court, Her Honour Judge
Venables allowed Buckinghamshire County Council to withdraw the allegations
against her parents Carla Andrew and Craig Stillwell.

Effie Stillwell, who was born in spring 2016, is now set to return to live with
her parents, and unusually the judge has given permission for the family to be
named in the hope of developing knowledge about the EDS IV Syndrome.

During the hearing Miss Andrew was diagnosed with Ehlers Danlos syndrome, and
tests showed that her daughter also had a form of the condition, making her skin
bruise easily, and her blood vessels and organs at risk of rupturing.

Effie was born a month prematurely and her parents regularly called medical
services as she often vomited and had problems in digesting her milk, the judge
said in a written ruling.

Distraught breastfeeding mum 'asked to leave church' after being told 'we don't
want to make men uncomfortable'

But her father called emergency services on August 15 last year when she became
stiff, then floppy, and gasped for air.

Paramedics thought she looked dead, and rushed her to hospital where she was
diagnosed with a bleed on the brain.

Both parents, who are in their twenties, were extremely upset and traumatized,
and later that day Det Sgt Wheeler arrested Mr Stillwell on suspicion of actual
bodily harm, putting him in an armlock.

Mr Stillwell, who had no criminal records, was later rearrested on suspicion of
grievous bodily harm, and a police investigation remains ongoing, the judge
said.

The judge said that EDS was an unpredictable and unique disease, and cited the
example of a 13-year-old girl with EDS who died when her uterus ruptured during
her first period.

Judge Venables said the case was unique, and that the parents made no criticism
of the police or professionals involved in the case.

Effie, she said, was a much loved and much wanted baby, who had made a full
recovery.

She was a precious baby, adored by both parents, who acted entirely
appropriately, and worked openly with doctors when she was admitted to hospital.

Her parents had asked the judge not to keep the judgment private, to allow them
to openly take part in the debate and developing knowledge about EDS.

Grieving parents 'made to feel like criminals' as police arrive after they took
baby's body to register office

Effie, the judge said, had also been admitted to hospital twice while living
with her foster carers, once with a swelling on her head, and a second time when
her eyes glazed over and she projectile vomited.

The parents have built up a very good relationship with the foster carers, who
are profoundly grateful for the care she has received.

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBMGNIRIS


                      Copyright 2017 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              421 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                    December 21, 2016 Wednesday 6:30 AM EST

BELLUS Health Provides Update on Pipeline

LENGTH: 835  words


Dec. 21 -- BELLUS Health Inc. (TSX: BLU) (BELLUS Health or the Company), a drug
development company focused on rare diseases, is providing an update on the
projects in its pipeline.

Highlights

* Auven Therapeutics, BELLUS Health's partner who acquired the rights to KIACTA
from the Company in 2010, has decided to terminate the KIACTA program for the
treatment of AA amyloidosis;

* Auven Therapeutics is evaluating the conduct of a Phase 2/3 study with KIACTA
in sarcoidosis, a rare and sometimes lethal lung disease;

* BELLUS Health has received positive regulatory feedback from the FDA in
regards to the design of a Phase 2 study for Shigamab in STEC related Hemolytic
Uremic Syndrome (sHUS);

* Update on partnered drug candidates, including AMO-01 for the treatment of
Fragile X Syndrome and ALZ-801 for the treatment of Alzheimer's Disease in APOE4
Homozygous patients.

"While the termination of the KIACTA AA amyloidosis program is not unexpected
considering the negative Phase III study results released in June, we are still
disappointed for the patients suffering from AA amyloidosis and their families,"
said Roberto Bellini, President and Chief Executive Officer of BELLUS Health.
"We are encouraged that our partner Auven Therapeutics is evaluating a clinical
study in sarcoidosis and together with Shigamab in sHUS, there is the potential
to have two clinical studies started next year."

KIACTA for AA Amyloidosis

Top-line results from the KIACTA Phase 3 study for the treatment of AA
amyloidosis were announced on June 20, 2016. In the study, KIACTA did not meet
the primary efficacy endpoint in slowing renal function decline. As a result of
the negative outcome of the Phase 3 clinical trial, Auven Therapeutics has
decided to terminate the KIACTA program for the treatment of AA amyloidosis.

KIACTA for Sarcoidosis

Auven Therapeutics is currently evaluating the potential use of KIACTA for the
treatment of patients suffering from active pulmonary sarcoidosis. Auven
Therapeutics has developed a clinical Phase 2/3 study protocol to evaluate the
safety and efficacy of KIACTA in sarcoidosis and an investigational new drug
application (IND) for this clinical study could be filed with the U.S. Food and
Drug Administration (FDA) in the first quarter of 2017. The sarcoidosis program
is currently under review by Auven Therapeutics and a decision is expected to be
made in the coming months.

Sarcoidosis is a rare condition that causes patches of red and swollen tissue -
called granulomas - that can develop in multiple organs in the body, but mostly
in the lungs and skin. There is no cure for chronic sarcoidosis, and treatment
options are limited and can have serious adverse effects.

Shigamab for sHUS

BELLUS Health has received positive regulatory feedback from the FDA in relation
to the clinical Phase 2 study protocol for the assessment of the efficacy and
safety of Shigamab in the treatment of children suffering from sHUS. BELLUS
Health is currently planning the next steps for the initiation of this clinical
Phase 2 study and is seeking to secure a strategic partner for the further
development of Shigamab.

sHUS is a rare disease which principally affects the kidneys and often leads to
acute dialysis, and in certain cases chronic kidney disease and death, primarily
in children.

AMO-01 for Fragile X Syndrome

AMO Pharma Limited, the Company's licensee of AMO-01 for the treatment of
neurologic and psychiatric disorders, is expected to initiate a Phase 2 study on
patients with Fragile X Syndrome in the first half of 2017.

Fragile X Syndrome is the most common inherited cause of autism and intellectual
disabilities, affecting approximately 1 in 4,000 males and 1 in 8,000 females.
Symptoms range in severity and can include intellectual disabilities, attention
deficit and hyperactivity, anxiety and seizures. There are currently no approved
drugs indicated for the treatment of Fragile X Syndrome.

ALZ-801 for APOE4 Homozygous Alzheimer's Disease

ALZ-801 for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease (AD), initially developed by
BELLUS Health and licensed to Alzheon Inc. (Alzheon) in 2013, is a prodrug of
tramiprosate, a beta-amyloid targeting small molecule shown to improve cognition
and function in AD patients who are carriers of apolipoprotein E4 (APOE4) AD
genotype, and to reduce soluble beta-amyloid in the cerebral spinal fluid of AD
patients.

Recent third-party positive clinical results for the treatment of early AD using
anti-beta-amyloid antibodies lend further support to the concept of amyloid beta
clearance as a promising approach for the treatment of AD.

Alzheon has completed two bridging Phase 1b clinical studies with ALZ-801 and is
currently in preparation for a pivotal Phase 2/3 program focusing on treatment
of mild AD patients who are homozygous for APOE4, the most important genetic
risk factor for late-onset AD.

Other

The Company continues to explore opportunities in order to expand its pipeline,
including through acquisitions and/or in-licensing.

Source: BELLUS Health

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2016 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              422 of 997 DOCUMENTS

              Copyright 2017 GlobalData Ltd., All Rights Reserved
                            GlobalData - Investments

                                 March 8, 2017

                                  ArmaGen Inc

                          Suite 100, 26679 Agoura Road
                                Calabasas 91302
                                 United States

* * * * * * * * * * INVESTMENTS * * * * * * * * * *


ArmaGen Enters into Research Agreement with Rett Syndrome Research Trust

   7/7/2016 12:00:00 AM

   ArmaGen, Inc., a biotechnology company, has enetered into a research
agreement with the Rett Syndrome Research Trust (RSRT), a non-profit
organization, to develop a novel therapeutic for the treatment of Rett Syndrome,
a rare genetic postnatal neurological disorder that affects girls almost
exclusively.<P/>Under the agreement, ArmaGen will utilize its expertise and
technology to develop a form of the MeCP2 protein that can cross the blood-brain
barrier (BBB) in an effort to compensate for the mutated protein. RSRT will fund
the development of this novel fusion construct as well as lend technical support
to the experiments. ArmaGen will be responsible for any future development
activities.<P/>This agreement enables ArmaGen and Rett Syndrome Research Trust
to develop novel therapeutic for the treatment of Rett Syndrome.


Shire Enters into Licensing Agreement with ArmaGen for AGT-182

   7/23/2014 12:00:00 AM

   Shire plc, a biopharmaceutical company, has entered into a worldwide
licensing and collaboration agreement with ArmaGen Technologies, Inc., a
biotechnology company, to develop AGT-182, an investigational enzyme replacement
therapy (ERT) for potential treatment of mucopolysaccharidosis (MPS) type II, or
Hunter's syndrome. <P/>Under the agreement, Shire receives worldwide
commercialization rights for AGT-182 from ArmaGen. ArmaGen will receive payments
up to approximately USD225 million, including an initial upfront payment of
USD15 million in cash and equity, an additional equity investment, R&D funding,
development milestones and sales milestones, in addition to future royalties up
to double digits. ArmaGen will be responsible for conducting and completing the
Phase I/II study which it expects to initiate before the end of 2014, after
which point Shire will be responsible for further clinical development,
including Phase III trials, and commercialization. <P/>This agreement enables
Shire and ArmaGen to provide treatment of both the central nervous system (CNS)
and somatic manifestations in patients with Hunter syndrome. This agreement
enables Shire to strengthen its rare disease pipeline of innovative
therapies.<P/>


ArmaGen Technologies Raises US$17 Million In Series A Financing

   11/29/2012 12:00:00 AM

   ArmaGen Technologies, Inc. (formerly Neurogenic Technologies, Inc.), a
biotechnology company, raised $17m in series A financing round. The financing
was led by Boehringer Ingelheim Venture Fund, along with Shire plc, Takeda
Ventures, Inc. and Mitsui & Co. Global Investment, Inc. In conjunction with the
financing, Pardridge, Stuart Swiedler, Martin Heidecker of Boehringer Ingelheim
Venture Fund, and Arthur Tzianabos of Shire, joined the ArmaGen board of
directors.

This financing allows ArmaGen Technologies to expand its existing operations,
and continue the clinical development of biopharmaceuticals targeting diseases
of the central nervous system (CNS), which are engineered to penetrate the
blood-brain barrier (BBB).

William M. Pardridge, chief scientific officer of ArmaGen, said, "The ArmaGen
investor syndicate is a unique group of big pharmas each with their own global
impact. This is the first time such a diverse group from the pharmaceutical
industry has come together to finance technology in the blood-brain barrier. I
am very delighted at the trust our investors have placed in us.

Stu Swiedler, said, "I believe that ArmaGen has an ideal technology to help
develop brain-penetrating recombinant proteins for the treatment of a broad
range of rare diseases that affect the brain but also the periphery. If this
works, doctors will have the potential to treat their patients with only one
drug. This would be really a breakthrough for their patients.

Martin Heidecker of Boehringer, said, I am very excited to work with such an
experienced team on orphan diseases, but what makes me really excited about the
technology is the potential of broad application in neurodegenerative and other
indications that affect the brain.
* * * * * * * * * * OTHER AVAILABLE REPORTS * * * * * * * * * *
Company Investment Analysis             Company Overview
Company Product Pipeline Analysis       Events
Financial Ratios                        Investments
Key Employees                           Key Facts
Major Products and Services             Top Competitors

 * * * * * * * * * * NOTE * * * * * * * * * *

   GlobalData uses a range of research techniques to gather and verify its
information and analysis. These include primary research, in-house knowledge and
expertise, proprietary databases, and secondary sources such as company
websites, annual reports, SEC filings and press releases. Disclaimer: No part of
this publication may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system or transmitted
in any form by any means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording or
otherwise, without the prior permission of the publisher, GlobalData. The facts
of this report are believed to be correct at the time of publication but cannot
be guaranteed. Please note that the findings, conclusions and recommendations
that GlobalData delivers will be based on information gathered in good faith
from both primary and secondary sources, whose accuracy we are not always in a
position to guarantee. As such GlobalData can accept no liability whatever for
actions taken based on any information that may subsequently prove to be
incorrect.

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2017


                              423 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                              The Ballarat Courier

                              May 21, 2013 Tuesday

Awareness for Williams syndrome

BYLINE: David Jeans

SECTION: THREE; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 163 words


MAY is the international awareness month for Williams syndrome, and a Ballarat
couple are trying to raise awareness in the community.

Kerrie and Simon Franc are raising funds for their daughter Pippa, who was
diagnosed with the rare disorder in January.

Ms Franc believes her daughter is the only person in Ballarat with Williams
syndrome.

"Pippa is very small, very pixie like. She can have heart issues and has high
calcium levels,"Ms Franc said.

Williams syndrome is a rare disease that developmentally and physically affects
a person.

It affects one in 20,000 people and is caused by a 'deletion' of genes on
chromosome seven.

"Pippa loves everybody and has no fear of strangers. She puts her arms up to
strangers to pick her up."

Ms Franc says that when Pippa is treated she sometimes feels like the doctor.

"It's challenging because no one has heard of the syndrome before, no one knows
anything about it. I have to tell the doctors what's wrong and what should be
done with her. "

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2013 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              424 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                        San Bernardino Sun (California)

                            December 14, 2012 Friday

Fontana man survives rare disease; battle featured on TV show

BYLINE: Josh Dulaney, Staff Writer

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 330 words


FONTANA - Patrick Abram Jr.'s recovery from a rare and potentially deadly
disease culminated in a primetime TV appearance.

Abram, who was diagnosed with Lemierre's syndrome in April 2010, was featured
recently on an episode of "Monsters Inside Me" on the Animal Planet Network.

"It was interesting," said Abram, 23. "I just never thought I'd get on TV,
especially for being sick."

The episode was titled "Killer in My Neck" and featured Jeffrey Roberts,
director of otolaryngology, head and neck surgery at Arrowhead Regional Medical
Center in Colton.

Roberts and Tim Stevens, a former Arrowhead Regional oral surgery resident,
diagnosed Abram Jr. with Lemierre's in April 2010 after he complained of a sore
throat and his father, Fontana resident Patrick Abram Sr., drove him to the
medical center after noticing his son's eyes were jaundiced and his jaw and left
foot were swollen.

The younger Abram was hospitalized for 28 days in the intensive care unit.

Film crews in October produced recreations of various aspects of Abram's
hospitalization.

Doctors opened his skull to keep pressure levels down after they were altered by
the bacteria invasion. Abram survived after months of intravenous antibiotic
therapy.

Lemierre's was named after French bacteriologist Andre-Alfred Lemierre, who in
1936 documented 20 cases of throat infections moving into the blood stream,
potentially damaging vital organs. Eighteen of the patients died.

There have been fewer than 200 cases of Lemierre's syndrome documented in the
United States in the past 50 years, according to one source.

The elder Abram said they agreed to do the TV show in order to spread the word
about the rare disease.

"The overall thing was to get the story out and hopefully parents and kids get
diagnosed," he said.

The younger Abram, who works full time at a San Bernardino distribution center,
said he's enjoying "the chance to do the things I didn't think I would (get to
to do)."

Reach Joshvia email, call him at 909-386-3894.

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Patrick Abram Jr. poses for a photo during an interview at his home on
Thursday, Dec. 13, 2012. Abram was diagnosed with Lemierre's disease, which
scatters clusters of bacteria through the body and brain. There have been fewer
than 200 recorded cases of Lemierre's in the United States in the past 50 years.
He was recently featured in an episode of "Monsters Inside Me," an Animal Planet
Network television show. (Rachel Luna / Staff Photographer)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 MediaNews Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              425 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                              Health Daily Digest

                             May 18, 2016 Wednesday

Things You Should Know About Kawasaki Syndrome

LENGTH: 195 words

DATELINE: U.S.


U.S., May 18 -- Kawasaki Syndrome affects children by harming coronary arteries
and targeting blood vessels. The rare disease mostly affects children aged
between 1 and 5.

Kawasaki disease is an autoimmune disease in which the medium-sized blood
vessels throughout the body become inflamed. It affects many organ systems,
mainly those including the blood vessels, skin, mucous membranes, and lymph
nodes.

As per the experts, parents should visit a doctor as soon as they see any
symptom of the Kawasaki Syndrome. The symptoms of the disease are fever for four
or more days, swollen lymph nodes, body rashes, peeling of skin from hands,
redness in eyes, cracked lips, cracked tongue and swollen limbs.

Experts from Max Super Speciality Hospitals said that the symptoms of Kawasaki
Syndrome are the same as signs of viral infection.

The expert further added that the syndrome should be detected within seven days
as after this period is over, treatment becomes very tough.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Health Daily Digest. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2016 HT Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              426 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                 Yorkshire Post

                            April 5, 2017 Wednesday

Leeds mum's fears over future of son's pioneering treatment

LENGTH: 533  words


A mum has spoken of her fears over a new drug funding rule which could leave her
son without access to the pioneering treatment she spent two years fighting for
him to receive.

Katy Brown, from Otley, tirelessly campaigned for her son, Sam, now eight - who
has life-limiting Morquio Syndrome - to receive Vimizim, a drug which health
regulator NICE finally agreed to fund in 2015 for five years.

But new rules - which came into effect on April 1 - have thrown its future use
beyond that into doubt after NICE announced a cap on the cost of new medicines.

Due to the inherent high cost of drugs for ultra-rare diseases, Mrs Brown, from
Otley, said this decision "directly discriminates" against patients such as her
son and branded it a "mis-guided, cost cutting exercise that will permanently
damage lives". She told the Yorkshire Post her "heart sank" when she heard the
news.

"We have gone back to exactly where we started. I just couldn't believe it," she
said.

The new rules involve the introduction of a £300,000 quality-adjusted life year
(QALY) threshold for medicines evaluated through NICE's Highly Specialised
Technologies (HST) programme for very rare conditions.

QALYs are a generic measurement of disease burden which NICE use to gauge drug
effectiveness in terms of how much it would cost to give a year of healthy life.

Campaigners say many treatments for ultra-rare conditions currently funded by
NHS England have costs per QALY of well over £300,000 - including Vimizim.

Morquio Syndrome is a degenerative condition which limits growth and mobility
and shortens life expectancy to an average of 25 years. There is no known cure
but patients say Vimizim - an enzyme replacement therapy - improves lives by
allowing children to grow, as well as improve stamina, the ability to walk and
pain levels. In a letter to NICE chief executive Andrew Dillon, Mrs Brown
described the new rules as "like a cruel and depressing version of Groundhog
Day", writing: "Your consultation singles out people with the protected
characteristic of disability, and directly stops their access to new treatments
for no other reason than the condition that they were unfortunate enough to be
born with is ultra rare."

The MPS Society, which represents Morquio patients and others with rare
inherited metabolic dieases, said the decision means the children and young
adults "will be condemned to death".

Chairman Paul Moody said it confirms that "children and young adults with ultra-
rare diseases going forward are economic pawns in a failing NHS and cheaper dead
than alive".

Mrs Brown and the MPS Society are calling people to sign a petition urging NICE
and NHS England to pause and reconsider the decision.

View the petition at http://www.mpssociety.org.uk.

A NICE spokesperson said: "Drugs for very rare diseases will be evaluated
against a sliding scale, so the more additional QALYs a medicine offers - that
is, the more therapeutic benefit a drug offers a patient when compared to
current standard treatment - the more generous the cost per QALY level it will
need to meet, starting at £100,000 per QALY, rising to a maximum of £300,000 per
QALY. This is ten times higher than the normal limit applied by NICE."

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NLYP


                       Copyright 2017 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved


                              427 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                             Yorkshire Evening Post

                            April 5, 2017 Wednesday

Leeds mum's fears over future of son's pioneering treatment

LENGTH: 533  words


A mum has spoken of her fears over a new drug funding rule which could leave her
son without access to the pioneering treatment she spent two years fighting for
him to receive.

Katy Brown, from Otley, tirelessly campaigned for her son, Sam, now eight - who
has life-limiting Morquio Syndrome - to receive Vimizim, a drug which health
regulator NICE finally agreed to fund in 2015 for five years.

But new rules - which came into effect on April 1 - have thrown its future use
beyond that into doubt after NICE announced a cap on the cost of new medicines.

Due to the inherent high cost of drugs for ultra-rare diseases, Mrs Brown, from
Otley, said this decision "directly discriminates" against patients such as her
son and branded it a "mis-guided, cost cutting exercise that will permanently
damage lives". She told the Yorkshire Post her "heart sank" when she heard the
news.

"We have gone back to exactly where we started. I just couldn't believe it," she
said.

The new rules involve the introduction of a £300,000 quality-adjusted life year
(QALY) threshold for medicines evaluated through NICE's Highly Specialised
Technologies (HST) programme for very rare conditions.

QALYs are a generic measurement of disease burden which NICE use to gauge drug
effectiveness in terms of how much it would cost to give a year of healthy life.

Campaigners say many treatments for ultra-rare conditions currently funded by
NHS England have costs per QALY of well over £300,000 - including Vimizim.

Morquio Syndrome is a degenerative condition which limits growth and mobility
and shortens life expectancy to an average of 25 years. There is no known cure
but patients say Vimizim - an enzyme replacement therapy - improves lives by
allowing children to grow, as well as improve stamina, the ability to walk and
pain levels. In a letter to NICE chief executive Andrew Dillon, Mrs Brown
described the new rules as "like a cruel and depressing version of Groundhog
Day", writing: "Your consultation singles out people with the protected
characteristic of disability, and directly stops their access to new treatments
for no other reason than the condition that they were unfortunate enough to be
born with is ultra rare."

The MPS Society, which represents Morquio patients and others with rare
inherited metabolic dieases, said the decision means the children and young
adults "will be condemned to death".

Chairman Paul Moody said it confirms that "children and young adults with ultra-
rare diseases going forward are economic pawns in a failing NHS and cheaper dead
than alive".

Mrs Brown and the MPS Society are calling people to sign a petition urging NICE
and NHS England to pause and reconsider the decision.

View the petition at http://www.mpssociety.org.uk.

A NICE spokesperson said: "Drugs for very rare diseases will be evaluated
against a sliding scale, so the more additional QALYs a medicine offers - that
is, the more therapeutic benefit a drug offers a patient when compared to
current standard treatment - the more generous the cost per QALY level it will
need to meet, starting at £100,000 per QALY, rising to a maximum of £300,000 per
QALY. This is ten times higher than the normal limit applied by NICE."

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NLEP


                       Copyright 2017 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved


                              428 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           December 17, 2016 Saturday

Memorandum: Creation of Rare Disease Advisory Council (previously HB 2402)

LENGTH: 275  words

DATELINE: New York



 Harrisburg: Pennsylvania House of Representatives has issued the following
Memorandum:



  From:     Representative Marcy Toepel

 To:     All House members

 Subject:     Creation of Rare Disease Advisory Council (previously HB 2402)





 In the near future, I plan to reintroduce legislation (previously HB 2402) to
establish a Rare Disease Advisory Council within the Pennsylvania Department of
Health.



 According to the National Institutes of Health (NIH), one in 10 Americans live
with a rare disease. Rare diseases and disorders are those which affect small
patient populations, typically populations smaller than 200,000 individuals in
the United States. Such diseases and conditions include Huntington's disease,
Lou Gehrig's disease, Tourette syndrome, Chron's disease and Cystic Fibrosis,
among others. Of the nearly 7,000 rare diseases identified by the NIH, only
about 200 rare diseases have Food and Drug Administration-approved treatments.



 The establishment of a Rare Disease Advisory Council will create a unique
collaborative partnership between patients, providers, researchers, agencies and
insurers in an effort to improve the lives of those living with one of the 7,000
devastating rare diseases. The Council's focus will be on the needs of the rare
disease community and the actions necessary to address those needs.



 This legislation is a top priority for the Rare Disease Caucus and is supported
by the National Organization for Rare Disorders. I hope you will join me in
cosponsoring this important proposal.





 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              429 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 26, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Building a Company to Treat a Rare Disease

BYLINE: By PAUL SULLIVAN

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; WEALTH MATTERS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1405 words


Karen Aiach was working as a management consultant when she learned that her
first daughter, Ornella, had Sanfilippo syndrome, a rare disease in which a
missing enzyme causes toxic substances to build up in the body.

Ornella was 6 months old, and the prognosis was grim: She would develop mentally
and physically to between ages 2 and 4, plateau and then lose whatever she had
learned. She would become extremely hyperactive and develop sleeping disorders.
Most likely she would not live past 15.

Within two years of the diagnosis, Ms. Aiach, who lives in a Paris suburb, had
quit her consulting job to learn everything she could about the disease. She
hired a neurobiologist to guide her in the world of medical research. And when
she learned that few treatments were in the works, she founded a company called
Lysogene  to focus on genetic therapy.

Instead of raising money and awareness by setting up a nonprofit foundation, a
more typical route, she opted to start a for-profit company to seek treatments,
if not a cure. Far from common, what Ms. Aiach and other parents like her are
trying is to leverage their wealth, contacts and the hope of sophisticated
investors to jump-start research into rare diseases.

''My goal was to find a therapeutic approach to that disease,'' she said.

Such investments can run in the hundreds of millions of dollars; researching and
marketing lifesaving drugs can cost billions. And even with their abundance of
dedication, many parents start with little knowledge of the science behind the
causes of the diseases that plague their children.

But with some rare diseases, where minimal research has been done, a little
effort goes a long way.

Nicole Boice, who founded Global Genes, one of the leading rare-disease patient
advocacy organizations, said even small investments can have meaningful impacts.

''You can start moving the needle with $3,500,'' she said. ''That leads you to
the next $25,000, and then to innovation grants and funding at $100,000. That
starts the interest from biotech.''

Gradually, parents like Matt Wilsey, a technology entrepreneur, have made
headway. First, his family spent the better part of four years trying to figure
out what afflicted his daughter, Grace, now 6. Even after her genome was
sequenced, the first diagnosis turned out to be wrong. Grace, it finally was
determined, was the second person in the world known to have a deficiency in the
gene known as NGLY1.

''We went around the country,'' Mr. Wilsey said. ''We were just trying to find
one doctor who had seen another patient with these symptoms.'' After years of
efforts, several dozen children have been found to have the same deficiency.

''Our goal is to find a cure,'' said Mr. Wilsey, who lives in the San Francisco
area.

''A lot of people in science dismiss that because cures are rare. But when I say
cures, they're not going to be astronauts. They're going to be leading some sort
of independent life. They're going to be able to eat without choking. They're
going to be able to take a bath without drowning. They're going to be able to
communicate, whether with some assistive device or not.''

These parents also had a successful model to follow. In 1998, John Crowley left
his job at Bristol-Myers Squibb to start a biotechnology company to search for a
treatment for Pompe disease, a neuromuscular disorder that two of his children
had. Within four years, the company, Novazyme Pharmaceuticals, had devised a
treatment that he credits with saving their lives. His story was immortalized in
the 2010 film ''Extraordinary Measures,'' starring Harrison Ford. And his
company was bought by the pharmaceutical giant Genzyme for $137.5 million in
2001.

Raising money quickly is one big advantage of the for-profit model. Rather than
receiving comparatively small donations, the parents behind these companies can
potentially raise tens of millions from biotech investors willing to bet on
medical trials even without a guarantee of success.

Ilan Ganot, a lawyer who was working in investment banking in New York, learned
in 2012 that his second child, Eytani, had Duchenne muscular dystrophy, which
affects only 300,000 people worldwide. The prognosis for people who have the
disease, considered a severe form of muscular dystrophy, is to need to use a
wheelchair by the time they are teenagers. Many die from respiratory or cardiac
failure in their 20s.

Mr. Ganot was able to work his banking connections from the start. He raised $17
million in the first year and has since raised an additional $47.5 million.

''The hope is always that we'll be able to become a center of gravity for this
one disease,'' he said. ''For me, it was important that the gene therapy was
very well-funded.''

Mr. Wilsey and his wife, Kristen, started the Grace Wilsey Foundation to raise
money to begin research into NGLY1. They contributed their own money but were
also successful in raising several million dollars from friends.

But now they plan to start a for-profit company in 2016. Mr. Wilsey was
initially hesitant, fearing that it would cannibalize the foundation, but
eventually he saw the advantages.

''It provides us more scale and the ability to raise more money,'' he said.
''The company will be focused on many diseases.''

Ms. Boice of Global Genes said such persistence and determination could attack
some of the 7,000 known rare diseases that affect about 350 million people
worldwide. Only 30 percent of the diseases have any coordinated effort to raise
money or encourage research, she said, and 500 of them have treatments.

''I'm not saying it's a smooth ride,'' Ms. Boice said. ''You're investing in
animal models, aggregating data and flying around the world to meet experts. And
some people have been at this game a long time, if you think about how much
money has been raised for cystic fibrosis and muscular dystrophy, and we don't
have a cure.''

Mr. Crowley himself emphasized that success is not always repeatable. When he
began, he knew little about the science behind what he was doing, and he was not
wealthy. And though he sold his company, he cautions others seeking cures for
the sake of financial reward.

''A lot of times people will call and say, 'We read about what you did and we
want to start a company,' '' he said. ''That's not always the right answer.
There are a lot more companies willing to work on rare diseases than there were
two decades ago. I urge people to take advantage of those entrepreneurs.''

Mr. Ganot, who said his company would start trials in 2017, acknowledged that
various factors would determine if the treatment was successful. ''The human
body isn't simple, and this is complicated,'' he said. ''We got to get lucky,
too.''

Yet Mr. Crowley understands what drives these parents. ''I wouldn't have wanted
to have looked back years later and said, 'God, I wish I could have done
something else.'''

And even small breakthroughs can buy patients time. Ornella Aiach's disease had
become quite advanced by the time she turned 6 and she became the first patient
to receive the gene replacement treatment that Lysogene had developed.

''She was extremely hyperactive when she was dosed with the product,'' Ms. Aiach
said. ''Afterwards, she started to do much better.''

After financing the research for years from their savings and contributions from
friends, Ms. Aiach recently raised $18.6 million from outside investors and
hopes the money will allow her to broaden the trials on the treatment her
daughter receives and make more progress.

Ms. Aiach realizes a cure for her daughter may not be possible, but the
treatment could offer far greater hope for others who are treated earlier in the
progression of the disease. The gene therapy may also have applications for
people with Parkinson's disease.

The treatment has, in effect, slowed the ravages of Sanfilippo syndrome. Her
daughter is now 10 and can walk with assistance. She cannot speak, but she is
not hyperactive and can sleep through the night.

''Doctors had told us that it would take 15 or 20 years to develop a treatment,
and it would be too late,'' Ms. Aiach said. ''The way drugs and treatments are
developed now is changing a lot. Parents are playing a large role.''

Make the most of your money. Every Monday get articles about retirement, saving
for college, investing, new online financial services and much more. Sign up for
the Your Money newsletter here.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/26/your-money/parents-of-children-with-
rare-diseases-find-hope-in-for-profit-companies.html

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Karen Aiach, and her daughter, Ornella, who has Sanfilippo
syndrome, a rare disease. Ms. Aiach founded a company to focus on genetic
therapy. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ED ALCOCK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B4)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              430 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                                The Toronto Star

                  May 20, 1990, Sunday, SUNDAY SECOND EDITION

Inmate gives voice to little-known disease

BYLINE: by Mark Bourrie SPECIAL TO THE STAR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 1085 words

DATELINE: PENETANGUISHENE


   PENETANGUISHENE - From his cell-like room in Ontario's only maximum-security
hospital, a 24-year-old North York native spins a web across the country, trying
to raise interest in a rare disease he believes has damaged his life.

Toronto and North York city councils have declared this week Klinefelter's
Syndrome Awareness Week. It's not unusual for city councils to recognize a cause
and name a week for it, but this case is quite different.

The man who successfully lobbied the city councils has never met the mayor of
either municipality, even though they're both on the board of the association he
set up to push for more research into the disabling disorder.

He can't come to Toronto to be part of the celebrations because he is locked in
the Oak Ridge division of the Penetanguishene Mental Health Centre.

Oak Ridge is not a very pleasant residence. It's the place where courts and
psychiatric hospitals send people who are so violent they can't be let out of
their building unless they are in shackles. Attendants who handle security won't
even say whether a patient is held there. Callers' names are taken and inmates
phone them back.

David Rabinovitch suffers from Klinefelter's syndrome, a doctor at Oak Ridge
said. He has been under the care of a Wellesley Hospital specialist, who is also
on the board of directors of the Klinefelter's syndrome group.

Rabinovitch blames the syndrome for his arsons. He says the disease, a genetic
mutation that gives its sufferers at least one extra female chromosome, was the
cause of the bizarre behavior that put him in the prison-like hospital with 130
other inmates who are considered dangerous.

He's been there since he was 20. Each year the Ontario Psychiatric Review Board
has turned down his request to be released.

But in his four years at the hospital he has learned much about gathering
information. At least one-third, possibly even as much as one-half, of the work
done by the Ontario Freedom of Information office, is done on Rabinovitch's
request.

He is famous in Ontario's mental health and media communities. A steady stream
of reporters come to see him. Some want stories, others just want to learn his
methods for getting information.

He has a youthful face that is ordinary except for his huge, chestnut eyes. He
walks with the shuffle of someone who has spent too much time in institutions.

And he loves fires - he's set eight of them in the Metro area. But he's proud
he's never hurt anyone.

His troubles started when he was a kid. He claims his home life was normal.
During public school, he was found to be lacking co-ordination and he did not do
well in sports.

"I felt alienated for the co-ordination problem along with the fact that I was
physically smaller, intelligent and my family was wealthier. Between the ages of
6 and 11, I had set numerous fires at both my family home and at school," he
says.

Later, he became a thief and a vandal as well as a fire bug. As a teen, he ended
up in Toronto psychiatric hospitals and jail.

He then learned he was suffering from the rare disease that may have contributed
to his strange behavior. He was unsure about his sexual preference, had
practically no self-esteem, and, at 20, he was sent to Oak Ridge.

He may be there for the rest of his life.

Scientific papers back Rabinovitch's claims. A publication by three U.S. experts
called Klinefelter's Syndrome: The X-tra Special Boy, cites concern by the
medical community over the number of Klinefelter's sufferers who are in jails
and mental institutions.

A recent article in the medical journal Pediatrics, by Drs. Marvin Miller and
Stephen Sulks, described what they believe to be a correlation between the
syndrome and fire-setting. Their research found 19 per cent of their patients
were arsonists, but fire-setting declined in half of the arsonists after they
received the male hormone testosterone.

Rabinovitch says he may never have lit fires if he hadn't suffered from the
disorder, but by the time he knew he had Klinefelter's syndrome his life was in
chaos.

"The crown prosecutors gave me a choice. Either I could be declared a dangerous
offender and put in prison, possibly for life, or I could come here. I already
knew people here. I knew I would have more rights here, so I decided to plead
not guilty by reason of insanity," he says.

Listening to him, it all makes sense. Most things he says don't seem strange.

Yet he has the appearance and mannerisms of a skittish horse. When asked if he
would start more fires if he was released, he dodged the question. When he was
asked a second time, he changed the subject.

He believes he is an innocent victim of the disease, which according to medical
research papers affects one in 1,000 men. It is much rarer in women yet there
are five organizations in Canada for females who have the disease.

There is only one organization for men - Rabinovitch runs it from his room,
without the help of a phone or fax machine.

Using the same persistence that has put him on the front pages of Canada's
largest newspapers for his information-gathering coups, Rabinovitch has amassed
an impressive mailing list of medical practitioners who support his
organization.

"For the first time in my life, I feel like I'm doing something useful. I'm
finally figuring out what's wrong with me and getting information on it."

But he says some officials at the hospital haven't encouraged his work.

"The hospital management has been unco-operative. They won't let the
organization use the hospital's mail box anymore and I can't get one of my own.
I sell booklets that I had printed up to doctors and people who are interested
and I only make 10 cents on each one. Do they have a problem with that?" he
asks.

Dan Parle, a spokesperson for the hospital, says management has offered to pick
up the organization's mail from another post box but it shies away from
endorsing any group, including those founded by patients.

Ironically, two other Ontario psychiatric hospitals have bought copies of his
booklet.

So this is David Rabinovitch's big week. Not only will it be marked in North
York and Toronto, but several small municipalities in the Penetanguishene area
are also supporting his cause.

But in Oak Ridge, there will be no party for Rabinovitch - just another week of
sending out mail to doctors, lawyers and the media about a disease few people
know anything about.arson; mental; health; David; Rabinovitch; biography

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1990 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


                              431 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                The Morning Call

                           August 10, 2016 Wednesday
                                 FIRST Edition

Research needed for CLOVES Syndrome

SECTION: NEWS; A; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 67  words


CLOVES Syndrome is a rare disorder affecting some 200 people worldwide. It is a
congenital syndrome with lipomatous overgrowth, vascular malformations,
epidermal nevi and spinal problems. There are limited treatments. My grandson,
now 21, was given the diagnosis. I ask that you support funding for CLOVES
Syndrome and other rare diseases and ask your legislators to do the same.

Patricia Fuisz

Bethlehem

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2016 Capital Gazette Communications, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              432 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                     January 29, 2015 Thursday 6:30 AM EST

Aldeyra Therapeutics to Present Novel Data on Potential Treatment for
Sjogren-Larsson Syndrome at 2015 Society for Inherited Metabolic Disorders
Annual Meeting

LENGTH: 414  words


Jan. 29 -- US-based Aldeyra Therapeutics issued the following news release:

Aldeyra Therapeutics, Inc. (Nasdaq:ALDX) (Aldeyra), a biotechnology company
focused on the development of products to treat diseases related to free
aldehydes, today announced that novel data on the potential of its lead product
candidate, NS2, to treat Sjogren-Larsson Syndrome (SLS) has been accepted for a
poster presentation at the upcoming 2015 Society for Inherited Metabolic
Disorders (SIMD) Annual Meeting, being held March 28-31, 2015 in Salt Lake City,
Utah.

SLS is a rare disease caused by mutations in an aldehyde-metabolizing enzyme,
fatty aldehyde dehydrogenase. In SLS, aldehyde-mediated modification of lipids
(fats) is thought to disrupt the dermal moisture barrier, leading to the severe
ichthyosis (dry, scaly, thickened skin) that is characteristic of the disease.
Aldeyra will present the objectives, methods and results of preclinical studies
evaluating the efficacy of an aldehyde trapping agent, NS2, in blocking aldehyde
modification of phosphatidylethanolamine (PE), a critical lipid in biological
membranes and the dermal moisture barrier. The data suggest that NS2 could have
significant utility in treating the dermatologic manifestations of SLS.

The poster and date of the presentation is provided below.

* Aldehyde Trapping Agent NS2 Blocks Formation of Fatty Aldehyde Adducts with
Phosphatidylethanolamine and Suggests Potential Therapeutic Approach for
Sjogren-Larsson Syndrome

Poster: 79

Date: Sunday, March 29, 2015

Location: Imperial Ballroom at the Grand America Hotel, Salt Lake City, UT

Todd C. Brady, M.D., Ph.D., President and CEO of Aldeyra, commented, "We look
forward to presenting this data that suggest the potential of NS2 to ameliorate
the debilitating symptoms of SLS, a rare but serious life-long condition. We are
optimistic about the activity of NS2 based on data generated to date, and
believe the abstract acceptance is a testament to the importance of discovering
a therapy for SLS, for which there are currently no FDA-approved drugs."

NS2 is an aldehyde-binding small molecule based on an innovative platform
technology focused on trapping free aldehydes, which are toxic and
pro-inflammatory mediators of numerous diseases. By decreasing aldehyde load,
NS2 may mitigate aldehyde-mediated toxicity. As a product candidate, NS2 is
currently being evaluated to address two underserved rare diseases, SLS and
noninfectious anterior uveitis.

Source: Aldeyra Therapeutics

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2015 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              433 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                                 NEW YORK TIMES

                            January 17, 1971, Sunday

SECTION: Page 59, Column 1

LENGTH: 116 words

Drs Stefan Kasperek and Stanislav Zebrowski (Poland) rept on what they believe
to be 41st reptd case worldwide of Stiffman syndrome, rare disease for which
treatment exists but cause remains unknown, rept, Archives of Neurology; contend
unreptd cases exist and that syndrome occurs more frequently than reptd;
syndrome's symptoms, which include painful muscle spasms, discussed; question of
whether syndrome results from nerve or muscle tissue ailment remains unanswered;
if nature of disease is determined, it might yield clues to secrets of other
muscle, brain and central nervous system ailments; '56 rept by Drs F P Moersch
and H W Wolfman (US) on 14 cases treated at Mayo Clinic discussed

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE:  NYT

              Copyright 1971 The New York Times Company: Abstracts


                              434 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                     The Leader-Post (Regina, Saskatchewan)

                           January 26, 2008 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Rare disease

BYLINE: Susan Hone, The Leader-Post

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. B7

LENGTH: 142  words


I'd like to say "Thank you" to everyone in Saskatchewan for helping me win the
Air Miles Contest in December.

People I had never met before would approach me and tell me they were voting for
me. What started out as a whim to get 15 Air Miles and perhaps get some
awareness about Barth Syndrome turned into being one of 10 contestants in Canada
who had a chance to win 15,000 Air Miles.

Where else but in Saskatchewan will total strangers to get behind you and help
you to achieve your goal?

I would also like to thank the Leader-Post's Pamela Cowan for the excellent
article she wrote about Barth Syndrome and helping me with our foundation's goal
of educating the world about this rare, life-threatening syndrome.

If you'd like more information on Barth Syndrome, please visit our Web site at
www.barthsyndrome.ca.

Thank you again, Saskatchewan!

Susan Hone

Regina

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2008 The Leader-Post, a division of Canwest MediaWorks Publication
                                      Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              435 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                                The Toronto Star

                      February 4, 2000, Friday, Edition 1

REACHING INTO CYBERSPACE FOR SUPPORT IN ILLNESSES

BYLINE: Janice Bradbeer

SECTION: LIFE

LENGTH: 1550 words




Patients and their families bond and learn on the Internet

The Smyth family, from left, Willy, 7, David, 9, dad Mike and mom
 Kim, stays in touch with other families who have a child, like
 David, with Shwachman-Diamond syndrome.

 Psychiatrist Arlette Lefebvre uses everything at hand, including
 the Internet, to work with patients.

 TORONTO STAR

Kim and Mike Smyth hosted a gathering in November that people travelled to from
the Toronto area, Ottawa, Quebec and Halifax.

Five families, along with medical researchers from Toronto's Hospital for Sick
Children, swapped stories and information over hot dogs, children's magic shows
and cups of steaming cider.

They came together because of Shwachman-

Diamond syndrome, a rare genetic disorder that affects the pancreas' ability to
digest food and results in poor bone marrow function. It occurs in one in 50,000
births.

Children with SDS are usually smaller than average and have repressed immune
systems. There is no cure. About 20 per cent of children with SDS die, usually
from serious infections or a rare form of leukemia that doesn't respond well to
chemotherapy.

The families came together to offer each other emotional support, to know that
they aren't alone in their struggles with SDS. Though they had shared intimate
details of their lives, many had never met each other face to face.

There are 12 SDS families across the country, eight of them in the Toronto area,
who have communicated with each other via the Smyth's Shwachman-Diamond Syndrome
Canada organization Web site.

The Oakville couple launched their Web site three years ago. Their son David,
now 9, was diagnosed with SDS when he was 6 months old. After years of feeling
isolated by this rare disorder and craving emotional support, the Smyths decided
to use the Internet to reach out to other SDS families.

''I was getting really tired of constantly having to tell my story to doctors
and medical professionals who weren't familiar with the syndrome,'' explains Kim
Smyth. ''We decided we had to speak to some families who have children with the
disorder.''

They entered ''Shwachman syndrome'' into an Internet search engine and located
the International Shwachman-Diamond Syndrome site in St. Louis, Mo., (www.shwach

man-diamond.org). The Smyths worked with the Missouri association to build their
Canadian Web site (www.shwachman.org).

They've since registered their fundraising charity, Shwachman-Diamond Syndrome
Canada, which supports community awareness and research, including the Sick
Kids' SDS research team.

''The most important thing with a rare disorder is to establish a huge database.
Then, you can start looking for a cure,'' says Kim Smyth, a part- time
accountant whose basement office is filled with medical and fundraising data.

Smyth adds that she's been told by professionals seeking research grants that
not enough children are dying from SDS to warrant finding a cure.

''One child is already one too many,'' she says, her eyes misting.

Dr. Arlette Lefebvre, a child psychiatrist at Sick Kids, not only encourages
cyberspace support groups, she's actually initiated them as a form of cyberspace
therapy.

Since 1992, the charitable organization that she co-founded, Ability Online
Support Network (www.able

link.org), has electronically linked children with chronic diseases or
disabilities to both disabled and non-disabled peers and mentors. The free

e-mail service has 8,000 registered users.

''One role model is worth a thousand shrinks'' is one of Lefebvre's often-
quoted aphorisms.

No one practises what Lefebvre preaches more than Ayala Ravek.

Ayala, 12, is a patient of

Lefebvre's who started her own Web page last May (www.ordesign.com/nopainzone)
to help her connect with others suffering from the same painful condition,
called reflex sympathetic dystrophy.

Through her Web site, Ayala, who lives in Nepean near Ottawa, has received about
100 e-mails from around North America and as far away as Australia. She's been
contacted by people as young as 9 and by seniors over 65.

''Not only people who have RSD, but also others with conditions or diseases that
are often painful, such as arthritis and fibromyalgia,'' she explains.

''My depression disappeared after I began to get e-mails from people who had RSD
and were going through the same things I was. I originally made my Web site to
help me explain to others what RSD is like, and I found out that by helping
other people, I've ended up helping myself.''

Lefebvre admits that the Internet has its drawbacks but it does have some
wonderful applications, she says. Both adults and children can use it to find
others in similar circumstances, to create community, and to seek answers to
medical questions.

Not all doctors encourage their patients to use the Web and that's a shame, says
Levebvre, author of the new book Taking Your Kids Online: How And When To
Introduce Children To The Internet (co-written with Brian Hillis, $21.99, McGraw
Hill-Ryerson). Physicians and patients need to work together to find the answers
to a patient's questions, she says, and often those can be explored online.

However, since anyone can set up a Web page, consumers need to be cautious.
There are safeguards, Lefebvre says. For instance www.hon.ch critiques health
sites on the Net.

''It tells people how to judge the quality of a health site,'' she says.

For sniffing out fake medicine and quackery, there's www.quackwatch

.com.

Lefebvre also gives top marks to the American Medical Association, www.ama-
assn.org, and one of its links, healthfinder.com. Information on rare diseases
and disorders is available from the National Organization for Rare Disorders
(NORD) at www.rare

diseases.org and its Canadian equivalent CORD site at www.bulli.com/cord ''are
the mecca of rare diseases,'' she says.

Lefebvre's own Web site www.froggie.org includes 42 health care links, mostly in
Canada and the U.S. (Canadian sites are flagged), as well as information on such
diseases as diabetes, anorexia nervosa and cystic fibrosis, in addition to kids'
and parents' links.

Darlene Long of Kitchener knows how far the long arm of the Internet can reach
to find answers to medical concerns and to create a lifeline of support.

Long, an RN with a master's degree in health science, used the Internet to find
information and links to a rare genetic malformation of the brain stem called
Arnold Chiari malformation and basilar impression.

Long started the World Arnold Chiari Malformation Association (WACMA) Web page
four years ago (www.pressenter.com/ wacma). Her queries about her condition
posted on the Internet led her to a leading neurosurgeon in Spain.

They exchanged research information over cyberspace on the newer procedures to
treat Chiari, and the neurologist mentioned a medical group at a New York City
hospital working on a current study.

The group invited Long to visit. Tests were done that confirmed her brain stem
compression and plans were made to relieve it. They rebuilt her skull and saved
her life, she says.

Long's Web site has also proved successful over the last four years. Half the
management staff are from Ontario - Long and Ron Watts of Holland Centre, near
Owen Sound - and the other two direct its operations from the U.S.

The latest statistics, from November, 1999, confirm that ''we have more than
2,000 people who read the list online each month, and more than 600 people are
on the e-mail list and exchange mail and information daily. That is quite a
large number for such a rare disorder,'' she says.

The site received further exposure when NBC's Dateline recently profiled Chiari.
Her group was involved in the filming and the show followed a member undergoing
brain surgery. ABC's 20/20 is now working on a story about the WACMA site, she
says.

Included in the Web site is a recommended surgeon list, a list of ways to
alleviate symptoms and questions to pose to neurosurgeons.

There is also an online support

line and links to medical health

care sites, such as Medlineplus (www.nlm.nih.gov/medlineplus)

which hooks up to the world's largest medical library, the National Library of
Medicine at the National Institutes of Health in Bethesda, Md.

Long has these tips for savvy health-surfers.

Get your information from a reliable source. There are plenty of Web sites with
credentials that can present the latest health news and information. Verify
credentials.

Beware of claims of miracle cures, miracle drugs and unspecified ''scientific
studies.''

Do not give personal information to an unsecured site. Medical information could
be sold to other sites or businesses. Also, certain medical sites maintain an
indelible archive of anything you might post.

Use information and support from the Internet as a stepping stone. It does not
replace your family doctor or a timely referral to a specialist, but can help
you deal with health issues.

''For access to the largest medical databases and medical journals, as well as
teaching sites, nothing beats the Net,'' Long says. ''Just take that next step
and follow up your concerns with a medical professional in the real world.''


LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: STARTED WEB SITE:
 Ayala Ravek, 12, found other people with her disease.

                  Copyright 2000 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


                              436 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                      The Guelph Mercury (Ontario, Canada)

                           December 24, 2015 Thursday
                                 First Edition

Province agrees to pay for drug to treat boy;
'It's a great Christmas gift,' says mother of 10-year-old from New Brunswick
with rare disease

BYLINE: The Canadian Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. A9

LENGTH: 339 words


A 10-year-old New Brunswick boy suffering from a rare and often fatal disease
will receive an expensive treatment for his illness for one year, the province's
health minister announced, reversing a decision the government made earlier this
year.

Victor Boudreau issued a brief statement Wednesday saying the province will pay
for up to 12 months worth of Vimizim to assess its effectiveness in treating
Morgan Doucet, who has Morquio syndrome.

The boy's mother, Carolle Mazerolle, was elated with the news.

"It really surprised me," she said in an interview from her home in
Baie-Sainte-Anne, N.B. "I don't know what changed their decision and I don't
care. I'm just glad we got it ... It's a great Christmas gift."

She said Morgan is in declining health because the disease causes an enzyme
deficiency that leads to many complications.

As a result, the boy always feels sick, has headaches and often vomits. He also
has a hard time breathing, uses a walker to get around and has had several
surgeries.

The drug costs about $200,000 annually.

Last week, Boudreau said he instructed health officials to find an independent
specialist to offer a second opinion about the drug, made by BioMarin
Pharmaceutical (Canada) Inc.

Boudreau could not be reached for comment.

However, the statement said New Brunswick will work with other provinces to
devise a national approach to reviewing expensive drugs for rare diseases.

The issue is expected to be part of high-level discussions next month when
provincial health ministers meet with their new federal counterpart, Jane
Philpott.

Last month, the Saskatchewan government said it would pay for one year of
Vimizim treatments for three siblings who have Morquio syndrome.

Their family's funding request was initially turned down at the end of
September.

Saskatchewan Health Minister Dustin Duncan has said the decision to cover the
cost came after additional consultation, similar to what has happened in New
Brunswick.

The drug is not a cure, though studies indicate it is effective in slowing down
the disease.

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              437 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                                 The Advertiser

                            August 10, 2004 Tuesday

Disorder link to IVF

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 98 words


CHILDREN born by IVF are about five times more likely to develop a rare genetic
growth disorder, an Australian study has found.

Presented yesterday at the Genetics and Population Health conference in
Fremantle, the study was conducted by the Murdoch Children's Research Institute
in Melbourne.

The study was based on 37 babies diagnosed with Beckwith-Wiedemann Syndrome, a
rare disease that causes babies to overgrow. The study found the syndrome
affected one in 400 children born through IVF.

The general prevalence of the syndrome ranges from one in 35,000 to one in
15,000.

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: ADV

                   Copyright 2004 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                              438 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                      Southern-Times Messenger (Australia)

                            March 10, 2010 Wednesday
                               1 - FIRST Edition

Support for Kabuki families

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 61

LENGTH: 219 words


WHEN Peta Carlton's son Zachary was diagnosed with an incredibly rare disease,
Kabuki Syndrome, the mum of four didn't know where to get help.

``When he was diagnosed there was no Australian support system at all,'' she
said.

``I just wanted some information.''

So Mrs Carlton and her husband Adrian, of Vista, established Supporting
Australian Kids with Kabuki Syndrome (SAKKS) to provide support for other
families affected by the disease.

Kabuki Syndrome, which occurs once in every 32,000 births worldwide, can affect
the major organs and children diagnosed with it often have intellectual
disabilities.

Her son Zac, 12, spent the first year of his life in hospital undergoing
operations to correct problems with his heart.

Mrs Carlton says her biggest struggle in running the foundation was fundraising
until a call last year from Lindy Bakker, from the Easy Riders Motorcycle Club
(EMC).

``It was fantastic to hear the voice on the other end of the phone offering
support,'' Mrs Carlton says.

Ms Bakker, of Elizabeth North, and her friends from EMC run fundraisers across
Adelaide to help SAKKS.

``We just wanted to help a charity - I went on the internet to have a look at
some and was blown away by Peta's story,'' Ms Bakker says.

SAKKS currently helps 60 families Australia-wide.

* To donate to SAKKS, phone 8264 0209.

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MST


                   Copyright 2010 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              439 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                              Health Daily Digest

                             August 2, 2016 Tuesday

Clinical Trial: ID Of Prognostic Factors In Mycosis Fungoides/Sezary Syndrome

LENGTH: 169 words

DATELINE: U.S.


U.S., Aug. 2 -- ClinicalTrials.gov registry received information related to the
study (NCT02848274) titled 'ID Of Prognostic Factors In Mycosis Fungoides/Sezary
Syndrome' on July 25.

Brief Summary: The purpose of the study is to develop a prognostic index model
for the rare disease of mycosis fungoides and sezary syndrome. This will be done
by collecting standardized clinical data at various institutions. The
investigators hope this will enable the identification of low- and high-risk
groups for survival in order to improve patient care and outcome.

Study Start Date: August 2016

Study Type: Observational

Condition: Mycosis Fungoides

Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma

Intervention: Not Provided

Recruitment Status: Not yet recruiting

Sponsor: Stanford University

Information provided by (Responsible Party): Stanford University

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Health Daily Digest. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2016 HT Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              440 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                             May 18, 2016 Wednesday

Rare Kawasaki disease in Mumbai, doctors see 12 cases in 6 months

BYLINE: Sumitra Deb Roy

SECTION: HEALTH NEWS

LENGTH: 361 words


At least 12 cases of Kawasaki syndrome, a rare disease in young children that
inflames the body's blood vessels, have been reported from city hospitals in the
last six months. Doctors however are alarmed by a few cases where children
affected by the seemingly noncontagious disease were living in the same
locality. Of these, while two live in Powai, the other two were from a
particular area in south Mumbai.

The Powai children, aged 4 and 5, presented to doctors at LH Hiranandani
Hospital with symptoms of high fever, throat redness and lymph node swelling.
Also, the boys came to the hospital weeks apart from each other. The disease
that usually occurs in children between ages of one and five can lead to serious
cardiac complications, including heart attack.

"One of the children came to us with symptoms that could mimic any common viral
infection. We treated him with normal medicines. But, he returned within 48
hours with eye congestion and rash. We carried out a 2D echo test and a blood
count and decided to start treating him for Kawasaki," said Dr Bijal Srivastava,
paediatrician at Hiranandani Hospital. While this was her first Kawasaki
diagnosis, a registry of the disease in Mumbai has about 160 confirmed cases.
She added that the hospital did not see any connection between the cases and
believe their proximity could be a coincidence.

The other two south Mumbai cases were seen about five weeks ago. Dr Raju
Khubchandani, director of paediatrics at Jaslok Hospital in Peddar road, said,
"We did treat two cases from the same area but there is nothing to suggest any
connection as yet," he said.He has treated over 150 Kawasaki cases in the last
10-12 years.

The recent uncommon occurrence, he said, was a case where the condition has
recurred in a child. "Recurrence is very rare as the disease is known to afflict
just once in a lifetime," he said. "The cause is often a mix of genetic,
environmental and immunological reasons," he said, adding that the treatment
cost remains a big challenge. It could range from a few thousands to a lakh The
syndrome was first described by Tomisaku Kawasaki in Japan in 1967.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              441 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                      Times of India (Electronic Edition)

                              May 17, 2016 Tuesday
                                 Mumbai Edition

Rare Kawasaki disease in city, doctors see 12 cases in 6 months

BYLINE: Sumitra.DebRoy@timesgroup.com

SECTION: TIMES CITY

LENGTH: 354 words


At least 12 cases of Kawasaki syndrome, a rare disease in young children that
inflames the body's blood vessels, have been reported from city hospitals in the
last six months.Doctors however are alarmed by a few cases where children
affected by the seemingly noncontagious disease were living in the same locality
. Of these, while two live in Powai, the other two were from a particular area
in south Mumbai.

The Powai children, aged 4 and 5, presented to doctors at LH Hiranandani
Hospital with

symptoms of high fever, throat redness and lymph node swelling. Also, the boys
came to the hospital weeks apart from each other. The disease that usually
occurs in children between ages of one and five can lead to serious cardiac
complications, including heart attack.

"One of the children came to us with symptoms that could mimic any common viral
infection. We treated him with normal medicines. But, he returned within 48
hours with

eye congestion and rash. We carried out a 2D echo test and a blood count and
decided to start treating him for Kawasaki," said Dr Bijal Srivastava,
paediatrician at Hiranandani Hospital. While this was her first Kawasaki
diagnosis, a registry of the disease in Mumbai has about 160 confirmed cases.
She added that the hospital did not see any connection between the cases and
believe their proximity could be a coincidence.

The other two south Mumbai cases were seen about five weeks ago. Dr Raju
Khubchandani, director of paediatrics at Jaslok Hospital in Peddar road, said,
"We did treat two cases from the same area but there is nothing to suggest any
connection as yet," he said.He has treated over 150 Kawasaki cases in the last
10-12 years.

The recent uncommon occurrence, he said, was a case where the condition has
recurred in a child. "Recurrence is very rare as the disease is known to afflict
just once in a lifetime," he said. "The cause is often a mix of genetic,
environmental and immunological reasons," he said, adding that the treatment
cost remains a big challenge. It could range from a few thousands to a lakh The
syndrome was first described by Tomisaku Kawasaki in Japan in 1967.

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              442 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                       The Day (New London, Connecticut)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                              June 20, 2010 Sunday

New Pfizer research unit to focus on rare diseases

BYLINE: Lee Howard, The Day, New London, Conn.

SECTION: BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL NEWS

LENGTH: 822 words


Jun. 20--Research on rare diseases used to be the province of start-up biotech
firms, but with blockbuster drugs harder and harder to find, even the world's
largest pharmaceutical firm can't pass up small opportunities.

That's why Pfizer Inc. has announced the formation of a new research unit, based
in Cambridge, Mass., which will focus exclusively on diseases affecting fewer
than 200,000 people.

"With patents expiring (on older drugs such as Viagra and Lipitor) and long-term
revenue in doubt, programs like these offer an opportunity companies like Pfizer
can no longer afford to overlook," according to a commentary in the
pharmaceutical blog FierceBiotech.

The National Organization for Rare Disorders, known as NORD, lists more than
1,000 rare diseases, ranging from bubonic plague to sudden infant death syndrome
to West Nile encephalitis, otherwise known as eastern equine encephalitis. But
Pfizer said more than 6,000 diseases have been classified as "orphan diseases,"
and less than 10 percent of these have available therapies targeting underlying
causes.

"NORD is very happy that Pfizer is establishing a Rare Diseases Research Unit,"
Peter L. Saltonstall, president and chief executive of the organization, said in
a statement. "Approximately 30 million Americans ... have rare diseases and, for
most of those people, there is no specific treatment."

Edward Mascioli, formerly vice president of clinical affairs at Peptimmune Inc.
and senior medical director at Paraxel, will run the new research unit.
Mascioli, most recently head of a private equity firm focusing on health care
and the life sciences, will report to Jose Carlos Gutierrez-Ramos, senior vice
president of BioTherapeutics Research and Development.

"We are coupling Pfizer's existing experience in rare diseases, such as
hemophilia, with our advanced protein technologies, resources and world-class
scientific team to focus on becoming a driving force in rare disease research,"
Gutierrez-Ramos said in a statement.

New York-based Pfizer said its new unit "will pursue treatments across all
therapeutic areas and modalities" and called the move "a further step in
Pfizer's strategy to apply our strong science and technology base to find
innovative new treatments for patients." Pfizer told The Boston Globe that
hemophilia, muscular dystrophy and serious diseases spurred by mutating genes
will be initial areas of concentration.

Pfizer would not specify how many people would be involved in the rare-disease
unit nor how it would interact with the scientists at Pfizer's campuses in
Groton and New London who study a wide range of diseases. But the company did
say there would be opportunities for shared research.

"The unit will partner closely with research units at all of our major R&D
sites, and so there will be opportunities for Groton scientists to work with the
unit on that basis," said Pfizer spokeswoman Anne Wilson.

Pfizer told The Globe that the rare-disease unit would be looking to partner
with universities and biotech firms in the Boston area to advance new research.

Though rare diseases don't offer the potential large markets that drugs
targeting major disorders can tap into, the barriers for getting therapies
approved are lower, which reduces the costs associated with developing
medicines. So-called orphan drugs -- therapies that treat diseases in which no
remedy is currently available -- receive favorable treatment from the FDA,
accelerating the speed at which companies can bring products to market.

Pfizer signaled its interest in rare diseases late last year, when it bought the
rights to an experimental drug to fight Gaucher's disease, an enzyme deficiency
that can damage the liver and bone marrow, occasionally leading to death. The
deal that calls for Pfizer and Israel's Protalix BioTherapeutics Inc. to develop
and commercialize a plant cell called taliglucerase alfa will cost the company
up to $115 million.

At the time of the Protalix agreement, Kindler said focusing on rare diseases
fit in with Pfizer's strategy of looking for new therapies to treat unmet
medical needs.

"This is an example," he said after a speech in Boston. "I hope it will be one
of many."

Pfizer's move into rare diseases coincides with a similar strategy from British
drugmaker GlaxoSmithKline, announced in February.

GSK estimates that 6 to 8 percent of the population worldwide may be affected by
a rare disease.

"Many are genetic in origin, start in childhood and cause lifelong debility and
premature death," the company said in a press release.

To see more of The Day, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.theday.com. Copyright (c) 2010, The Day, New London, Conn.
Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints, email
tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax
to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave.,
Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20100620-NL-New-Pfizer-research-unit-to-focus-on-rare-diseases-0620

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NL


                             Copyright 2010 The Day


                              443 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                Moorabbin Glen Eira/Kingston Leader (Australia)

                           October 4, 2006 Wednesday
                                  MSV Edition

Eliza's a silent angel

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 310  words


AS A young sufferer of the rare Rett Syndrome, East Bentleigh's Eliza Jackson
has a big battle on her hands.

Eliza can't talk or walk, she suffers from scoliosis (curvature of the spine)
and epilepsy, and she needs a hoist to move in and out of bed.

What's worse, her future is bleak: Rett Syndrome is a debilitating neurological
disorder about which little is known.

The rare disease, which affects about one in 15,000 Australian women, could
claim her life at any time.

Despite it all, there's no sadness in Eliza's eyes.

''She communicates with her eyes,'' Eliza's dad, Peter Jackson said. ''They call
people with Rett Syndrome silent angels, and that's exactly what she is.

''When you put her to bed and when you get up you get a huge smile and a giggle
and that's not a bad way to start and finish the day.''

Peter and wife Anne knew very early on that their daughter wasn't developing as
she should.

''She developed normally for about 18 months and then she started regressing,''
Mrs Jackson said. ''But I hadn't twigged anything was permanently wrong with
Eliza so it came as a huge shock that this was long-term.''

Now aged seven, Eliza requires around-the-clock care plus regular visits to a
total of 18 different medical specialists.

But thanks to a recent donation from the Make-A-Wish Foundation, Eliza's life
has become a little brighter.

''Eliza's family wished for a spa so she could stretch out and relax after being
in her wheelchair all day,'' Make-A-Wish volunteer Anne McGeary said.

The family is now looking forward to a happier summer. ''To have this wish
granted is just amazing,'' Mrs Jackson said. ''Eliza is so happy in the water.
She can relax her muscles after being cramped all day.''

Mr Jackson described Eliza as fun and easy-going.

''Sometimes it can be tough,'' he said. ''But we just try to focus on how she is
a fun, beautiful little girl.''

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: MSV


                   Copyright 2006 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              444 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           September 26, 2016 Monday

Washington: FDA approves expanded indications for Ilaris for three rare diseases

LENGTH: 490  words

DATELINE: New York



 Washington: US Food and Drug Administration, The Government of USA has issued
the following news release:



 The U.S. Food and Drug Administration today approved three new indications for
Ilaris (canakinumab). The new indications are for rare and serious
auto-inflammatory diseases in adult and pediatric patients:





     Tumor Necrosis Factor Receptor Associated Periodic Syndrome (TRAPS);

     Hyperimmunoglobulin D Syndrome (HIDS)/Mevalonate Kinase Deficiency (MKD);
and

     Familial Mediterranean Fever (FMF).



 All three syndromes are hereditary diseases that are characterized by periodic
attacks of fever and inflammation, as well as severe muscle pain. There are no
previously approved therapies for TRAPS or HIDS/MKD.



 "For the first time, patients with TRAPS and HIDS/MKD, two painful and life
altering diseases, have access to a treatment that may help improve their
quality of life," said Badrul Chowdhury, M.D., Ph.D, director of the Division of
Pulmonary, Allergy and Rheumatology Products in FDA's Center for Drug Evaluation
and Research.



 Ilaris was previously approved for another periodic fever syndrome called
Cryopyrin-Associated Periodic Syndromes (CAPS) and for active systemic juvenile
idiopathic arthritis. Health care professionals should review the prescribing
information in the labeling for detailed information about the approved uses.



 Approvals for the new indications were based on clinical studies, including
safety, efficacy and pharmacokinetic data. The most common adverse reactions for
these indications are injection site reactions and being more susceptible to
catching colds.



 Ilaris can cause serious side effects, including increased risk of serious
infections. Ilaris can lower the immune system's ability to fight infections.
Other serious side effects include decreased ability to fight infections
(immunosuppression) and allergic reactions. Patients experiencing any symptoms
of an allergic reaction should call their healthcare provider, including: rash,
itching and hives, difficulty breathing or swallowing, and dizziness or feeling
faint. Patients should not get live vaccines if receiving Ilaris. Patients
should not receive Ilaris if they are allergic to canakinumab or any of the
ingredients in Ilaris.



 Ilaris is manufactured and distributed by Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation,
of East Hanover, New Jersey.



 The FDA, an agency within the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services,
protects the public health by assuring the safety, effectiveness, security of
human and veterinary drugs, vaccines and other biological products for human
use, and medical devices. The agency is also responsible for the safety and
security of our nation's food supply, cosmetics, dietary supplements, products
that give off electronic radiation, and for regulating tobacco products.



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              445 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                              May 17, 2016 Tuesday

Rare Kawasaki disease in city, doctors see 12 cases in 6 months

BYLINE: Sumitra Deb Roy

SECTION: MUMBAI

LENGTH: 362 words


MUMBAI: At least 12 cases of Kawasaki syndrome, a rare disease in young children
that inflames the body's blood vessels, have been reported from city hospitals
in the last six months. Doctors however are alarmed by a few cases where
children affected by the seemingly non-contagious disease were living in the
same locality. Of these, while two live in Powai, the other two were from a
particular area in south Mumbai.

The Powai children, aged 4 and 5, presented to doctors at LH Hiranandani
Hospital with symptoms of high fever, throat redness and lymph node swelling.
Also, the boys came to the hospital weeks apart from each other. The disease
that usually occurs in children between ages of one and five can lead to serious
cardiac complications, including heart attack.

"One of the children came to us with symptoms that could mimic any common viral
infection. We treated him with normal medicines. But, he returned within 48
hours with eye congestion and rash. We carried out a 2D echo test and a blood
count and decided to start treating him for Kawasaki," said Dr Bijal Srivastava,
paediatrician at Hiranandani Hospital. While this was her first Kawasaki
diagnosis, a registry of the disease in Mumbai has about 160 confirmed cases.
She added that the hospital did not see any connection between the cases and
believe their proximity could be a coincidence.

The other two south Mumbai cases were seen about five weeks ago. Dr Raju
Khubchandani, director of paediatrics at Jaslok Hospital in Peddar road, said,
"We did treat two cases from the same area but there is nothing to suggest any
connection as yet," he said.He has treated over 150 Kawasaki cases in the last
10-12 years.

The recent uncommon occurrence, he said, was a case where the condition has
recurred in a child. "Recurrence is very rare as the disease is known to afflict
just once in a lifetime," he said. "The cause is often a mix of genetic,
environmental and immunological reasons," he said, adding that the treatment
cost remains a big challenge. It could range from a few thousands to a lakh

The syndrome was first described by Tomisaku Kawasaki in Japan in 1967.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              446 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            October 8, 2015 Thursday

Global Genes Announces Winners of the David R. Cox Prize for Rare Compassion

LENGTH: 742 words

DATELINE: Lahore



 Washington: Biotechnology Industry Organization has issued the following news
release:




 ALISO VIEJO, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Global Genes&trade; is proud to partner
with Student Advocates for Neglected Diseases (STAND) to present the second
David R. Cox Prize for Rare Compassion, an essay program that connects medical
students with the rare patient community. More than 70 student submissions were
narrowed down to three prizewinners, who were recognized at the 4th Annual RARE
Patient Advocacy Summit in Huntington Beach, California on Friday, September 25.




  &ldquo;The Cox Prize has grown into a fantastic partnership between the
medical students of STAND and the network of rare patient advocates with Global
Genes&rdquo;

 Ang Xu, a 2nd year medical student at Baylor College of Medicine in Houston,
Texas, earned the grand prize. Xu's winning essay, The Complexities of Medicine
Lie Outside Textbooks and Examination Rooms, explored Congenital Central
Hypoventilation Syndrome. &ldquo;The main reason I learned so much was because
of the family's willingness to share their entire story with me,&rdquo; stated
Xu. His medical interests lie in healthcare policy and quality improvement and
patient safety. Xu plans to stay in touch with his matched family.
 In preparation for the essay submission, students in their first or second year
of medical school are required to forge a relationship with a patient, family,
or advocate affected by a rare or neglected disease in order to write about the
experience. Based on this interaction, students shared their reflections,
conveying the significance of the disease's effect on the patient, student or
society, and offered examples of personal or professional growth through a
2,500-word essay.
 This year's program saw more than 1,500 families request to be matched with a
medical student, over 65 diseases represented in essays, and participation from
students attending 55 medical schools in the U.S. and Canada.
 &ldquo;The Cox Prize has grown into a fantastic partnership between the medical
students of STAND and the network of rare patient advocates with Global
Genes,&rdquo; commented Colton Margus, STAND Founder and student at New York
Medical College in Valhalla, NY. &ldquo;Thanks to our combined effort, the
program is challenging medical students to explore ways to improve compassion
for and understanding of the obstacles that rare patients and families face
everyday. This is a goal that is very close to me professionally, as I pursue my
own medical degree, but also personally, as a sibling to two great guys with
ataxia telangiectasia,&rdquo; he added.
 A panel comprising Global Genes Medical and Scientific Advisory Board members
and patient advocacy leaders evaluated the submissions on extent of the contact,
compassion, novelty, and insight to determine the winners. The three winning
submissions received cash prizes of $1,500 for first place, $1,000 for second
place and $500 for third place.
 &ldquo;Global Genes would like to thank Foundation Alliance partners, STAND and
rare disease patients and families for an overwhelming response to the Cox
Prize,&rdquo; commented Nicole Boice, CEO of Global Genes. &ldquo;Through
programs like this, we are connecting the next generation of physicians and
leaders with the world of rare. We are encouraging compassion among doctors for
the challenges families of rare disease face. It's truly incredible.&rdquo;
 Global Genes would like to congratulate the following 2015 David R. Cox Prize
honorees:
 1st Place

 The Complexities of Medicine Lie Outside Textbooks and Examination Rooms

 Congenital Central Hypoventilation Syndrome

 Ang &ldquo;Tony&rdquo; Xu

 Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, Texas
 2nd Place

 What Mason Taught Me: The Sad Truth About Rare Diseases

 Pediatric Hepatocellular Carcinoma/Pediatric Cancer

 Margaret Cupit

 Mayo Medical School, Rochester, Minnesota
 3rd Place

 The Strength Within

 Cystic Fibrosis

 Lauren Meiss

 University of California San Francisco, San Francisco, California
 Honorable Mention

 Let Me Not Die While I Am Still Living: Strength in the Face of Chronic Illness


 Lymphangiectasia

 Alexandra Giantini Larsen

 Harvard Medical School, Cambridge, Massachusetts
 Honorable Mention

 The Power of a Name

 PURA Syndrome

 Rachel D'Amico

 The Ohio State University College of Medicine, Columbus, Ohio


 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com



LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              447 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                                 June 28, 2015
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Health services let Sam suffer;
GREG MULHOLLAND, Liberal Democrat MP for Leeds North West, reveals how a
six-year-old boy is being failed by the system

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 698 words


SAM BROWN is a six-year-old boy from the market town of Otley in my West
Yorkshire constituency. When he was just 16 months old his parents Katy and
Simon received the kind of news any parent would dread: Sam had a rare disease
known as Morquio syndrome. So rare in fact that only 87 other people in the UK
have it.

The average life expectancy of someone with Morquio is 25 years. Symptoms
usually start between the ages of one and three, and include stunted growth,
abnormal bone development, a bell-shaped chest and knock knees.

There is no cure for Morquio syndrome. It is a degenerative condition that
causes irreversible damage but a drug called Vimizim, approved at European level
and used in 20 other European countries, but not the UK, can halt the worsening
of the condition.

And so one day, when Sam was aged three, his parents received a phone call. It
was a nurse saying there might be a drug that could help Sam cope with his
condition but this drug was only being trialled in the UK. Simon and Katy did
what any of us would have done, they signed Sam up to the trial.

For the past three years, after 100-mile round trips from Otley to Manchester
every Thursday to get Vimizim, Sam is now more active, agile and physically more
capable. To quote his mother Katy: "The drug has given him the freedom to be a
child again."

Sam has already gone through more than most six-year-old boys but over the past
seven months he has been faced with another challenge: ministers and
unaccountable bureaucrats at NHS England.

In November 2014, despite strong concerns expressed by doctors, NHS England
rolled out a scorecard process to help decide which drugs it should fund. In
December, after the threat of legal action that the scorecard was discriminatory
towards those with rare diseases, NHS England accepted this and suspended use of
the scorecard.

In the seven months since then I have argued that we need an interim process in
place to decide which drugs to fund.

In the absence of either a permanent or temporary process Sam's parents have
been plunged into uncertainty. Sam's drug Vimizim had been funded by its
producer, pharmaceutical company BioMarin, at the company's own cost.

In October, BioMarin offered to supply the drug to NHS England for a number of
years but at a lower price. After repeated chasing and getting no response
BioMarin announced in February it would cease supplying the drug. Sam's supply
to Vimizim was cut off on June 25.

Here we have a six-year-old boy repeatedly failed by bureaucracy. NHS England
drew up a flawed scorecard process and was forced to scrap it. It then did not
bother responding to a drugs company willing to supply treatment at a cheaper
price.

Sadly, the failures do not end there. This month, the National Institute of
Health and Care Excellence (Nice) published interim guidance saying it will not
recommend NHS England fund the drug. But there are fears the clinicians involved
did not have the expertise to arrive at this conclusion.

This decision also cites the high cost of Vimizim as a reason for not
recommending funding, ignoring the fact that it was offered at a lower price!
Time and again people like Sam have been let down by unaccountable bureaucrats.

Ministers have not covered themselves in glory either. In the last parliament I
raised this matter with the Prime Minister three times, with the Deputy Prime
Minister, the Health Secretary and also Minister for Life Sciences George
Freeman.

Campaigners and families, however, have repeatedly been fobbed off by ministers
saying, "These are matters for NHS England". But NHS England did not attend two
meetings I had with Mr Freeman. We also sent the minister, at his request, a
10-page letter setting out our concerns. He merely passed it on to NHS England
which then took an outrageous 11 weeks to reply.

The result? A six-year-old boy whose drug supply has now been cut off: an
utterly unacceptable outcome we should not be seeing.

What message do ministers and NHS England have for children like Sam whom they
have let down? What will they say to parents worried about their children's
futures? And when will ministers finally intervene to sort out this total
bureaucratic mess?

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Picture: IAN HINCHCLIFFE/Ross Parry

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SXP


                       Copyright 2015 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                              448 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                         Portside Messenger (Australia)

                           October 14, 2015 Wednesday
                                Portside Edition

Support for those who care

BYLINE: Kurtis Eichler

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 176  words


WEST Lakes mum Christine Goldfinch spends every waking hour tending to her sons'
needs.

The single mum has four children and two of her sons, Michael, 16, and Thomas,
11, have multiple disabilities including epilepsy and Christian Syndrome.

The syndrome is a rare disease which causes the malformation of the skull, limbs
and palate. "On a bad day Michael will spend the entire time sleeping and when
he is awake he will be dry retching or gagging, that's part of the syndrome he
lives with," Ms Goldfinch says. "The boys cannot speak but have recently started
using a communications book where Thomas has learnt to point to two requests -
'more' and 'hurry up'." Ms Goldfinch shared her story as part of National Carers
Week, which runs until Friday. The week honours the contribution unpaid carers,
such as Ms Goldfinch, make to their community.Variety spends millions of dollars
helping children living with a disability. The charity gave $500 worth of
incontinence aids to the boys and $5000 to modify Ms Goldfinch's car to allow
wheelchairs to fit in safely.

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: Portside Messenger


                   Copyright 2015 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              449 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Hindu

                            February 29, 2016 Monday

Walk for rare diseases sees huge participation

LENGTH: 131  words

DATELINE: Bengaluru


Bengaluru, Feb. 29 -- Around 2,500 Bengalureans turned up to show their support
for rare diseases at 'Race for 7', a 7-km walk organised here on Sunday to raise
awareness on the issue.


 More than 50 participants with rare diseases joined the rally, including
15-year-old Nihal Bitla, who suffers from Hutchinson-Gilford progeria syndrome,
which was depicted in Amitabh Bachchan-starrer Paa. The rally was flagged off by
Kannada actor Kishore Kumar G. from St. Joseph's High School.
 "We wanted to draw the attention of Indian policymakers through this
initiative. We expected a team of 7,000 people to raise awareness on the 7,000
rare diseases," said founder-director of the Organisation For Rare Diseases
India (ORDI) Prasanna Kumar B. Shirol whose daughter suffers from Pompe disease.


LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 FFC Information Solution
                              All Rights Reserved


                              450 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                      October 6, 2016 Thursday 6:30 AM EST

BARDA Awards $37.6 Million Contract to Sanofi to Supply Leukine (sargramostim)
for Potential Public Health Emergency

LENGTH: 319  words


Oct. 6 -- Sanofi Genzyme, the specialty care global business unit of Sanofi,
announced today that the Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority
(BARDA), within the Office of the Assistant Secretary for Preparedness and
Response in the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, has awarded Sanofi
a $37.6 million contract to supply and manage inventory for Leukine.

Sanofi Genzyme is developing Leukine for the treatment of acute radiation
syndrome. Acute radiation syndrome is a serious illness that occurs in people
exposed to high doses of radiation. The condition involves injuries to the
body's organs, including the bone marrow, gastrointestinal tract, and lungs, and
can cause neutropenia, an abnormally low level of white blood cells that fight
infection called neutrophils.

"According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the cause of death
in most cases of acute radiation syndrome is the destruction of the person's
bone marrow[1]," said Richard Peters, Sanofi Genzyme's Global Head of Rare
Diseases. "We are pleased to be able to partner with BARDA to support public
health."

In 2013, Sanofi was awarded a $36.5 million contract for late stage development
and procurement of Leukine. Since then Sanofi Genzyme has conducted studies
regarding the potential use of Leukine in patients acutely exposed to
myelosuppressive doses of radiation (Hematopoietic Syndrome of Acute Radiation
Syndrome). Sanofi Genzyme expects to submit a supplemental Biologics License
Application (sBLA) to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration next year.

BARDA provides an integrated, systematic approach to the development and
purchase of the necessary vaccines, drugs, therapies, and diagnostic tools for
public-health medical emergencies.

Footnote:

[1] CDC. 2016. Emergency Preparedness and Response - Radiation Emergencies.
[ONLINE] Available at: http://emergency.cdc.gov/radiation/ars.asp.

Source: Genzyme

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2016 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              451 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           September 26, 2016 Monday

FDA approves expanded indications for canakinumab for three rare diseases

LENGTH: 219  words

DATELINE: New York



 Washington: American Pharmacists Association has issued the following news
release:



 FDA has approved three new indications for canakinumab (Ilaris--Novartis). The
new indications are for rare and serious auto-inflammatory diseases in adults
and pediatric patients: Tumor Necrosis Factor Receptor Associated Periodic
Syndrome (TRAPS); Hyperimmunoglobulin D Syndrome (HIDS)/Mevalonate Kinase
Deficiency (MKD); and Familial Mediterranean Fever (FMF). The syndromes are all
hereditary conditions characterized by periodic attacks of fever and
inflammation as well as severe muscle pain. Previously, there were no approved
therapies for TRAPS or HIDS/MKD. Canakinumab was previously approved for
Cryopyrin-Associated Periodic Syndromes and for active systemic juvenile
idiopathic arthritis. Approvals for the three new indications were based on
clinical studies, including safety, efficacy, and pharmacokinetic data. The most
common adverse events for these indications are injection site reactions and
being more susceptible to catching colds. The drug can cause serious adverse
effects, such as increased risk of serious infections, and it can lower the
immune system's ability to fight infections.







 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              452 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           September 26, 2016 Monday

FDA approves expanded indications for canakinumab for three rare diseases

LENGTH: 219  words

DATELINE: New York



 Washington: American Pharmacists Association has issued the following news
release:



 FDA has approved three new indications for canakinumab (Ilaris--Novartis). The
new indications are for rare and serious auto-inflammatory diseases in adults
and pediatric patients: Tumor Necrosis Factor Receptor Associated Periodic
Syndrome (TRAPS); Hyperimmunoglobulin D Syndrome (HIDS)/Mevalonate Kinase
Deficiency (MKD); and Familial Mediterranean Fever (FMF). The syndromes are all
hereditary conditions characterized by periodic attacks of fever and
inflammation as well as severe muscle pain. Previously, there were no approved
therapies for TRAPS or HIDS/MKD. Canakinumab was previously approved for
Cryopyrin-Associated Periodic Syndromes and for active systemic juvenile
idiopathic arthritis. Approvals for the three new indications were based on
clinical studies, including safety, efficacy, and pharmacokinetic data. The most
common adverse events for these indications are injection site reactions and
being more susceptible to catching colds. The drug can cause serious adverse
effects, such as increased risk of serious infections, and it can lower the
immune system's ability to fight infections.







 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              453 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            South China Morning Post

                           February 28, 2012 Tuesday

One in a million;
Neglected by governments and drug companies, patients with rare genetic diseases
face a life of pain and suffering, writes Elaine Yau

BYLINE: Elaine Yau

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 06

LENGTH: 1495 words


Imagine being dealt a death sentence at the age of five. For Chung Wing-kei,
it's becoming a harrowing possibility after the Hospital Authority decided last
December to stop subsidising the medicine that keeps her alive.

Wing-kei, affectionately known as Kei Kei, is one of seven people in Hong Kong
who suffer from Pompe disease, a rare disorder that disables the muscles
including those of the heart. Though she loves eating cakes and swimming, she
can't do either of those things - she's confined to a wheelchair,  breathes
through a respirator and, because of weak oral muscles, is fed only liquid food
through a tube connected to the stomach.

Once every two weeks, she gets an enzyme injection. The medicine costs more than
HK$90,000 per month, and the Hospital Authority had been subsidising the
treatment since 2008. But an expert panel reviewed her case last August and told
Kei Kei's mother, Man Shuk-man, that the subsidy would stop if the girl was not
taken off the respirator by the end of November  last year.

"Without the medicine, her condition will keep worsening until she dies," says
Man, a clerical worker, who has since launched fundraising campaigns to help pay
the medical bills. "However, with continuous treatment, she can have a normal
lifespan."

Thousands of people suffer from rare diseases in Hong Kong. While there are no
official numbers, Stephen Lam Tak-sum,  president of the International
Federation of Human Genetics Societies,  says several hundred rare diseases have
been recorded in local medical literature.

Countries vary in how they define rare disease. In the US it's a disease  that
affects fewer than 200,000 people; in Europe it's one that affects less than 1
in 2,000 people. In Hong Kong, Lam says in general, a rare disease  has an
incidence rate of less than 1 in 10,000.

"While local medical school involves teachings on such diseases, many doctors
have never seen even a single case in their lifetime, rendering diagnosis for
patients difficult," he says.

With tomorrow being Rare Disease Day, paediatricians and  patient support groups
worldwide are calling on governments to boost resources for studying rare
diseases and treating patients. They say patients are mostly abandoned by local
governments and pharmaceutical companies which deem it not  cost-effective to
pour resources into researching cures for diseases that afflict only a tiny
population.

There are more than 5,000 rare diseases listed in the world with new ones being
described every week in medical literature, and no available treatment for
between 4,000 and 5,000 of these afflictions. About 80 per cent of them are
genetic in origin.

According to the Pompe Community (www.pompe.com), Pompe disease is estimated to
affect about 1 in 40,000 live births. It's caused by a defective gene that
results in a deficiency of an enzyme, which leads to excessive build-up of
glycogen, a form of sugar. This build-up causes muscle weakness, poor weight
gain, heart enlargement and lung infections.

Just like Pompe, many rare diseases are caused by gene mutations that affect the
production of enzymes which are necessary for specific chemical reactions in the
body, according to Professor Albert Li  Man-chim  from Chinese University's
department of paediatrics.

"The lack of enzymes leads to metabolic diseases," he explains. "In many cases,
both parents carry the mutated gene and that does not affect them at all. But
after the two mutated genes are combined, there's a one-fourth chance that the
offspring will be afflicted with the disorder."

Other children may get a rare disease from a hidden mutated  gene from either
the paternal or maternal side.

Sarah, a 13-month-old Danish baby, failed to receive active genes from a
specific section of her father's chromosome 15 and was diagnosed with
Prader-Willi syndrome last December at Queen Mary Hospital. People normally have
a pair of these chromosomes, one from each parent. The disorder, with an
incidence rate of 1 in 20,000, causes poor muscle tone, short stature and a
chronic feeling of hunger that can lead to excessive eating and life-threatening
obesity.

Sarah's mother Rikkle, who has another daughter Emma, two, quit her job with a
medical equipment company after she gave birth to Sarah. She and her husband
Anders, a financial manager, spend thousands of dollars a month on growth
hormones for their child to support healthy development and strengthen muscles.
Fortunately for the couple, the government has decided to reimburse the cost of
the drug starting from April.

While Kei Kei and Sarah have had their rare conditions diagnosed, the difficulty
of getting a diagnosis in Hong Kong creates much anguish for parents, says
Christina Hellmann, chairman of the Joshua Hellmann Foundation for Orphan
Diseases  which provides support to rare disease sufferers under the age of 19.

She says that some tests may be complicated, so specimens have to be sent
overseas, but up to 30 per cent of the blood cells in the specimen can
deteriorate in the process. Other tests can be done here, but may be expensive.
Hellmann says the foundation is raising money to set up a local laboratory
centre in collaboration with the government.

"We hope that the lab could be set up at the Centre of Excellence in Paediatrics
which is due to open in 2016 [at the Kai Tak development in Kowloon Bay]. With
the lab, doctors can do the diagnosis in Hong Kong," she says.

Hellmann set up the foundation  in 2007 after her son Joshua died at the age of
15 from the rare  neuro-degenerative disease Melas syndrome. The foundation has
paid  for the diagnosis of 42 children with  rare diseases so far - and has
thereby helped the children receive the appropriate treatment.

One beneficiary is Candy Cheng, a mother of five. Three of her children have
suffered from mitochondrial disease type five.  Her youngest son, Cheuk-ki,
seven, was diagnosed last year with the disease. Her second son passed away at
the age of three because of complications from pneumonia in 1993. Her eldest
son, Ricky, 24, is blind and wheelchair-bound.

With an incidence rate of 1 in 5,000, it is estimated that there are at least
1,400 sufferers of mitochondrial disease in Hong Kong. Mitochondria are the
parts of cells that generate energy for the body. Defects in mitochondrial DNA
can cause poor growth, muscle weakness, visual and hearing problems, learning
disabilities, heart, liver and kidney disease, neurological problems and
dementia.

It wasn't until Cheuk-ki's diagnosis that Cheng realised what was wrong with her
sons. "After my sons were  born, they lacked mental acuity and suffered from
weight loss and muscle spasms. I visited every hospital in the  city and no one
could tell me what was wrong with my sons. Their condition  just kept
deteriorating."

In 2010, the foundation arranged  for a sample of Cheuk-ki's muscle  cells to be
sent to Holland, and the results confirmed the disease. However, there are no
drugs available for it.

Cheng says her sons take vitamins and tendon-loosening drugs to treat the
symptoms. "Although it can't be cured," she says, "at least now I know what's
afflicting them."

Even when treatments are available, they may be too costly. Expensive enzyme
replacement therapies are usually used for rare metabolic disorders, says
Stephen Ma On-tat, vice chairman of the Hong Kong Mucopolysaccharidoses (MPS) &
Rare Genetic Diseases Mutual Aid Group.

MPS is a group of inherited metabolic disorders that affects organ function and
mental and physical development. Ma, whose 19-year-old son suffers from MPS type
six, says the enzyme therapy treatment, which became available in 2004, costs
more than HK$4 million per year.

Members of the mutual aid group took to the streets in 2007 to fight for the
treatment's inclusion in the Hospital Authority's Drug Formulary. Only drugs for
clinical indications in this database are subsidised. "The authorities look at
it from an economic point of view," says Ma. "They only act following intense
public and media pressure."

The government responded by setting up an expert panel on rare metabolic
diseases in 2007, which reviews rare disease cases and decides whether they
warrant subsidised treatment. The panel eventually included three of the seven
types of MPS on the formulary in 2010 - types one, two and six. There is
presently no cure for the remaining types.

So far, the panel has only reviewed four diseases: Pompe, MPS, Fabry  and
Gaucher's. Ma says its operations are opaque. "I don't know which members
constitute the panel."

It's the same panel that has decided to stop Kei Kei's subsidies, and Ma is wary
of the possibility of that situation one day too.

The Hospital Authority says the panel will continue to assess applications from
patients with MPS. "We will consider whether to provide individual patients with
subsidised treatment. Meanwhile, the Hospital Authority will provide timely
support to patients according to their condition and medical needs."

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Twenty-four-year-old Ricky Cheng (right) and his seven-year-old brother
Cheuk-ki (below right) both have mitochondrial disease; Sarah, 13 months
(centre) has Prader-Willi syndrome; Chung Wing-kei, aged five (far right)
suffers from Pompe disease. Photos: Nora Tam. Illustration: Henry Wong

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 South China Morning Post Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              454 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                           January 26, 1985 Saturday

Surprise assembly call   Pope to review Vatican Council

BYLINE: GAM

LENGTH: 262 words


Canada's largest Aspirin manufacturer will soon begin to label Aspirin
 with a warning that children taking the drug for flu or chicken pox may
 face an increased risk of Reye's Syndrome, a rare disease that kills one
 in four of its victims.

The Sterling Drug. Co., manufacturers of Bayer Aspirin, made the
 decision after a recent U.S. study linking Aspirin with Reye's Syndrome
 prompted Washington to require U.S. drug manufacturers to put warning
 labels on Aspirin.

Reye's Syndrome is a degenerative disease of children and teen-agers
 that often follows severe viral infections, affecting internal organs and
 the brain.

The U.S. study is being reviewed by the Health Protection Branch of
 Health and Welfare Canada to see whether such a requirement should be
 imposed in Canada. In the meantime, Sterling decided independently to
 introduce the labels.
    "On the basis of what we've seen so far we have decided to voluntarily
 incorporate some precautionary wording on our labels regarding the
 administration of Aspirin to children and teen- agers with chicken pox or
 flu," said Joe Kiefer, a spokesman for the company.

Jean Sattar, of Health and Welfare Canada, said department officials
 and doctors are studying the U.S. data to determine whether all Aspirin
 manufacturers in Canada should be required to put warning labels on their
 products.

The director of the Canadian Pharmaceutical Association, Leroy Fevang,
 said most pharmacists recommend that children and teen-agers with flu or
 chicken pox take acetaminophen - of which the best known brand is Tylenol
 - rather than Aspirin.

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 1985 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              455 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            Odessa American (Texas)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            March 7, 2007 Wednesday

Odessa firefighter needs support: Amonett may have hantavirus pulmonary syndrome

BYLINE: Odessa American, Texas

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 231 words


Mar. 7--A plasma donation drive continued Tuesday at Santa Fe Square in Odessa
for Odessa firefighter Ronald Brent Amonett, who has been hospitalized since
Feb. 27.

Amonett remained in critical condition Tuesday at Medical Center Hospital.

His friend Arthur Villa said it's believed Amonett might have hantavirus
pulmonary syndrome.

According to the Center for Disease Control Web site, hantavirus pulmonary
syndrome is a deadly disease humans can contract when they come into contact
with infected rodents or their urine and droppings. The rare disease is
potentially deadly, the Web site said.

Amonett is still using a respirator but is making some progress and is receiving
50 percent oxygen, Villa said.

Villa said when donors go to one of the donation sites, they must mention they
are donating for Amonett.

If people want to make a monetary donation, money can be deposited at the Odessa
Employees Credit Union to Ronald Brent Amonett's account or at the Saturday
blood drive at the Antioch Christian Church, Villa said.

On the Net:

>> www.cdc.gov/ncidod/diseases/hanta/hps/index.htm.

Copyright (c) 2007, Odessa American, Texas Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune
Business News. For reprints, email tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call
800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax to 847-635-6968, or write to The
Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave., Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20070307-OD-0307-Odessa-firefighter-needs-support

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: OD


                         Copyright 2007 Odessa American


                              456 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tifton Gazette (Georgia)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                          February 13, 2008 Wednesday

2 Tift children contract rare disease

BYLINE: Jana Cone, The Tifton Gazette, Ga.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 678 words


Feb. 13--TIFTON -- The South Health District announced Tuesday that within the
last three months two children in Tift County have contracted a rare disease
called hemolytic uremic syndrome (HUS). The disease, which affects the kidneys,
is usually associated with a powerful toxin produced by certain strains of
bacteria, usually E. coli O157:H7. It is a potentially deadly condition that is
the leading cause of acute kidney failure in infants and young children.

Dr. Lynne Feldman, district health director of the South Health District, told
The Gazette they are investigating the two cases, in cooperation with the
Georgia Division of Public Health, and at this time have not identified any
common exposures.

"We look for key exposures," Feldman said. "The question now is, is there any
kind of commonality there."

Feldman said they had just gotten the second case and "need to spend more time
investigating it." She said they had already checked with other counties and had
not found any cases outside Tift County. She said she was concerned because they
"usually see this less frequently in South Georgia and more in metropolitan
areas" and that in rural areas the exposure is usually not from a food source
but from animal feces.

Feldman pointed out that the two cases were far apart in time. "One in November
and then another in February, that is not the same as one common exposure," she
said.

"Usually when we find HUS it tends to be an isolated case and not connected to a
broader outbreak," Feldman said.

The first child to contract the illness was a 3-year-old girl who was diagnosed
in November. A friend of the family told The Gazette the 3-year-old was taken to
a hospital in Augusta right before Thanksgiving and is "doing real good now."

The second child, a little girl who is 2 years and 9 months old, was diagnosed
on Tuesday, Feb. 5. After being admitted to Tift Regional Medical Center she was
transferred to Egleston hospital in Atlanta, where she was put on pediatric
kidney dialysis and given blood transfusions. Her grandfather said, "I hope, and
want to say that she is stable, but she has not turned the corner yet."

The 2-year-old's grandfather said the two children knew each other but had not
seen each other in almost a year.

Feldman said people of all age groups are at risk for E. coli O157 infections.
However, young children and the elderly are at greater risk for more severe
symptoms. The most common symptoms of E. coli O157 infections are diarrhea, --
which may be bloody-- vomiting, abdominal cramps and fever. Some of those
infected have no symptoms at all. HUS occurs in a small percentage of those
infected with E. coli O157. Symptoms of HUS include irritability, fatigue and a
decrease in urine output.

Feldman said E. coli O157 is found on contaminated food like meat, especially
ground beef, dairy products or juice. Thorough cooking of ground beef and
avoidance of unpasturized milk and fruit juices are important in preventing E.
coli infection. E. coli O157 can also be found in the feces of animals such as
cattle and deer. Infection can also come from drinking contaminated water or
eating fruits or vegetables washed with contaminated water. Small children
should not be allowed to play in areas where they might be exposed to animal
feces or water contaminated by these animals. Good hygiene and hand washing with
warm water and soap are the best defense against person-to-person spread of the
disease, Feldman said.

The South Health District, or District 8, covers Ben Hill, Berrien, Brooks,
Cook, Echols, Irwin, Lanier, Lowndes, Tift and Turner counties.

To contact reporter Jana Cone, call 382-4321, ext. 208.

To see more of The Tifton Gazette or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.tiftongazette.com/. Copyright (c) 2008, The Tifton Gazette, Ga.
Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints, email
tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax
to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave.,
Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20080213-TJ-2-Tift-children-contract-rare-disease-0213

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TJ


                                 Copyright 2008


                              457 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               Illawarra Mercury

                            February 24, 2017 Friday
                                 Print Edition

Raising funds for rare diseases

BYLINE: LISA WACHSMUTH

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 138 words


Fairy Meadow mother Melissa Bowyer has teamed up with the Steve Waugh Foundation
to raise funds for rare diseases.

Mrs Bowyer's son, Riley, suffers from a rare auto-inflammatory disease called
Periodic Fever Syndrome for which there is no cure.

''As February 28 is Rare Disease Day I decided I wanted to run a campaign which
acknowledges and raises awareness of all the children and families out there
battling many forms of rare disease, not just Riley's condition,'' she said.
''I've teamed up with the Steve Waugh Foundation which provides grants for
medicine, treatment, equipment and respite for 0-25 year olds facing rare
diseases.''

She's recruited seven local artists who've donated their artworks for a silent
online auction, with highest bidders to be announced on February 28. Visit
Facebook.com/twoboysimages for details.

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2017 Illawarra Newspapers Holding Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              458 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            South China Morning Post

                            February 18, 2013 Monday

Orphan diseases that fail to get much attention

BYLINE: Lo Wei

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 02

LENGTH: 324 words


Mitochondrial disease is one of the orphan diseases - an ailment that has been
ignored by the medical and pharmaceutical industries because of its rarity.
There is no money to be made from finding a cure for it.

Governments also allocate little resources to patients with rare diseases as can
be seen in the lack of funding for equipment to diagnose mitochondrial disease
in Hong Kong.

"Are the lives of rare disease patients less valuable than those with common
diseases?" said Christina Hellmann, chairman of the Joshua Hellmann Foundation
for Orphan Disease which advocates the rights of rare disease patients.

She set up the foundation in memory of her son, Joshua, who died at 15 in 2007
of a mitochondrial disease called Melas Syndrome, which affects the brain,
nervous system and muscles.

The foundation funds tests for suspected cases and has a network of experts
providing support to patients and families.

There are between 6,000 and 8,000 types of rare diseases in the world.

In Hong Kong, there is not enough information on the prevalence of rare diseases
to generate meaningful estimates.

The term "rare disease" is defined differently from country to country.

In general, a disease is considered rare if it affects up to one in 2,000
people.

A Hong Kong mother, whose three-year-old son has Pelizaeus-Merzbacher disease,
researched online for potential treatments for the central nervous system
disorder that paralysed him.

She was told her son's case was the only one in Hong Kong.

She found that two treatments are undergoing clinical trials overseas.

She hoped to try them on her son, but was turned down by public hospital doctors
before finding one willing to consider it.

"One of the doctors told me, 'People won't conduct a study for a single case
like you.' I said, 'A single case is still a human'," said the mother who
identified herself as Shirley. "I understand they have their difficulties, but
as a mother I felt so helpless."

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2013 South China Morning Post Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              459 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                    Scotsman

                            December 6, 2010 Monday

Diagnosis problems for those with rare diseases

BYLINE: Lauren Turner

LENGTH: 160 words



HIGHLIGHT: Nearly half of people with rare diseases are initially misdiagnosed,
a survey has found.


The report by Rare Disease UK (RDUK) found that almost 20 per cent of sufferers
lived with their conditions for more than five years before they received an
accurate diagnosis and over 10 per cent had to wait more than a decade. Only 26
per cent of the 600 people questioned said they were diagnosed within three
months of first noticing symptoms.

Rare diseases are classified as those which affect one in 2,000 people. RDUK
says such conditions are "surprisingly common", with 3.5 million people in the
UK experiencing one at some point in their lives.

Conditions include all childhood cancers, muscular dystrophy and Cockayne
syndrome, characterised by poor growth and premature ageing.

Alastair Kent, chairman of RDUK, said: "Not only is it often a battle to get an
accurate diagnosis, patients and families then struggle to find out the medical
impact of a condition and how to manage it, on top of having to cope with
day-to-day life without adequate support."

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TS


                       Copyright 2010 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved


                              460 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                           Hobart Mercury (Australia)

                            August 10, 2004 Tuesday

Study finds IVF link  with growth disorder

LENGTH: 260 words


CHILDREN born by in-vitro fertilisation are about five times more likely to
develop a rare genetic growth disorder, an Australian study has found.

Presented yesterday at the Genetics and Population Health conference in
Fremantle, the study was conducted by the Murdoch Children's Research Institute
in Melbourne.

It was based on a sample of 37 babies born in Victoria between 1983 and 2003,
all of whom were diagnosed with Beckwith-Wiedemann Syndrome, a rare disease that
causes babies to overgrow.

The study found that the syndrome affected one in 400 children born through IVF.

Other research has found the general prevalence of the syndrome ranges from one
in 35,000 to one in 15,000.

Affected babies are often large at birth, many have abdominal wall defects,
large organs, prominent eyes and an oversized tongue and mouth.

The syndrome is not life-threatening.

IVF Australia clinician Dr Ric Porter said the study "rang a few alarm bells"
but he thought it unlikely the results would dissuade any of the desperate
couples that walk through his door.

The Victorian research has confirmed the findings of three overseas studies
conducted last year, said Murdoch institute director Bob Williamson.

But Professor Williamson said the study did not prove that IVF was dangerous and
could be better used to understand genetic imprinting, or why IVF babies were
more likely to be born prematurely.

"I want to see IVF as safe as normal conception -- and anything we can do to
understand the process will enable us to make IVF safer," he said.

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: MER

                   Copyright 2004 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                              461 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                       McAlester News-Capital (Oklahoma)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            March 17, 2011 Thursday

Rare disease strikes 2 McAlester boys

BYLINE: Jeanne LeFlore, McAlester News-Capital, Okla.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 312 words


March 17--MCALESTER -- Two children who suffer from an extremely rare
life-threatening disease of the kidney live in McAlester while awaiting kidney
transplants. Both boys are registered at the Mayo Clinic as Nos. 18 and 19 of
known cases of this rare disease in the United States. "There are only 250 known
cases in the world," said Sissie Field of McAlester. She is the mother of the
two boys.

Chase, 7, and Cameron, 5, suffer from Dent's Syndrome. "There is no cure," Field
said.

Dent's disease is an X-linked recessive inherited condition that affects the
proximal renal tubules of the kidneys.

Dealing with this disease has been difficult for the whole family, but for the
mother it has been especially difficult. "Finding out that both my babies have a
life threatening disease killed me, but when I learned the disease came from me
because it is an X-linked chromosome disorder, it ripped my world apart," she
said.

Dent's is extremely rare. "The boys are registered at the Mayo Clinic for the
disease. Chase is No. 18 and Cameron No. 19 of known cases in the United
States."

Field said she tries to be brave for the boys, she said "they are the sweetest
little boys I know and have hearts of gold, but there is not a day I don't cry
and scream and beg God for a do-over."

A benefit account has been set up in the name of Chase and Cameron Williams at
McAlester First National Bank in Trust.

For more on this story, see Wednesday's edition of the McAlester News-Capital.

Contact Jeanne LeFlore at jleflore@mcalesternews.com

To see more of the McAlester News-Capital or to subscribe to the newspaper, go
to http://www.mcalesternews.com/. Copyright (c) 2011, McAlester News-Capital,
Okla. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For more
information about the content services offered by McClatchy-Tribune Information
Services (MCT), visit www.mctinfoservices.com.

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20110317-ZO-Rare-disease-strikes-2-McAlester-boys-0317-20110317

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: ZO


                     Copyright 2011 McAlester News-Capital


                              462 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               Leicester Mercury

                             May 27, 2009 Wednesday

We're here to help with rare disease

SECTION: Pg. 19

LENGTH: 172 words


Sufferers of a rare neurological disease and their families are holding an
awareness event.

Guillain-Barre syndrome (GBS) affects about 1,500 people across the country each
year.

Members of the local support group are organising an information stand in the
restaurant at Leicester General Hospital.

It   will be open from 10am until 3pm today, tomorrow and Friday.

The syndrome is a condition caused by nerves becoming inflamed and damaged.

This can lead to pain and sometimes paralysis, with some patients left dependent
on life-support machines.

Paul Southwood, who has suffered from the syndrome and is a member of the local
support group, said he hoped the information display would raise awareness of
the condition and let people know that help is available in Leicester.

He added: "GBS is a rare condition that can affect anyone, regardless of age.

"Since I had GBS, I have had to re-adjust my life.

"I used to go out walking regularly, but now I'm not able to walk as far because
my legs get tired and can't support my body for too long."

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 44


                        Copyright 2009 Leicester Mercury
                              All Rights Reserved


                              463 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               Leicester Mercury

                             May 27, 2009 Wednesday

We're here to help with rare disease

SECTION: Pg. 19

LENGTH: 172 words


Sufferers of a rare neurological disease and their families are holding an
awareness event.

Guillain-Barre syndrome (GBS) affects about 1,500 people across the country each
year.

Members of the local support group are organising an information stand in the
restaurant at Leicester General Hospital.

It   will be open from 10am until 3pm today, tomorrow and Friday.

The syndrome is a condition caused by nerves becoming inflamed and damaged.

This can lead to pain and sometimes paralysis, with some patients left dependent
on life-support machines.

Paul Southwood, who has suffered from the syndrome and is a member of the local
support group, said he hoped the information display would raise awareness of
the condition and let people know that help is available in Leicester.

He added: "GBS is a rare condition that can affect anyone, regardless of age.

"Since I had GBS, I have had to re-adjust my life.

"I used to go out walking regularly, but now I'm not able to walk as far because
my legs get tired and can't support my body for too long."

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 44


                        Copyright 2009 Leicester Mercury
                              All Rights Reserved


                              464 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               Leicester Mercury

                             May 27, 2009 Wednesday

We're here to help with rare disease

SECTION: Pg. 19

LENGTH: 172 words


Sufferers of a rare neurological disease and their families are holding an
awareness event.

Guillain-Barre syndrome (GBS) affects about 1,500 people across the country each
year.

Members of the local support group are organising an information stand in the
restaurant at Leicester General Hospital.

It   will be open from 10am until 3pm today, tomorrow and Friday.

The syndrome is a condition caused by nerves becoming inflamed and damaged.

This can lead to pain and sometimes paralysis, with some patients left dependent
on life-support machines.

Paul Southwood, who has suffered from the syndrome and is a member of the local
support group, said he hoped the information display would raise awareness of
the condition and let people know that help is available in Leicester.

He added: "GBS is a rare condition that can affect anyone, regardless of age.

"Since I had GBS, I have had to re-adjust my life.

"I used to go out walking regularly, but now I'm not able to walk as far because
my legs get tired and can't support my body for too long."

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 44


                        Copyright 2009 Leicester Mercury
                              All Rights Reserved


                              465 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                    The Orange County Register (California)

                            October 9, 2008 Thursday
                                   1 Edition

Family copes with child's genetic disease;
Toddler fights rare disease that didn't allow him to process nutrients.

BYLINE: By EUGENE W. FIELDS; OCREGISTER.COM

SECTION: ANAHEIMHILLS; Pg. Crime

LENGTH: 428 words


For one year, Jason and Keri Brunmier wondered why their infant son had frequent
respiratory problems.

"The doctors thought he had asthma," said Keri, a stylist at a salon in Anaheim
Hills.

Brunmier said her son's doctors recommended seeing a geneticist at CHOC, who
immediately recognized that J.R., 1, had mucopolysaccharidosis type 1 (commonly
known as Hurler Syndrome).

Hurler Syndrome is a rare genetic disorder that affects one in every 25,000
people in which the body lacks an enzyme needed to break down nutrients,
according to the National Marrow Donor Program. Because people with Hurler
Syndrome can't break down those nutrients, they remain stored in cells
throughout the body. Build up can cause organ damage and eventually death, if
left untreated.

J.R. began receiving enzyme treatments in preparation for a bone-marrow
transplant.

Keri Brunmier said her worries continued because of what she read on the
internet.

"It's not very positive," she said. "But I talked to a parent of a child with
Hurler and she said the bone marrow transplant was risky, but successful."

J.R. received a bone-marrow transplant on May 15. Tests conducted in July show
his body is producing its own enzymes, Brunmier said.

"He's just a special little boy," she said. "I was more scared than anything."

J.R. isn't in the clear yet. Brunmier said her home needed to be totally
remodeled to create a sterile environment while J.R.'s body rebuilds its immune
system, which was wiped out after the bone marrow transplant.

He sees his doctors at CHOC weekly to check his blood levels. Brunmier said
medical costs were covered by insurance and a state-funded program. Her parents
came from Branch, Ark. to give support and were hosted by the Ronald McDonald
House in Orange for six weeks.

Brunmier said colleagues, clients and friends held a fundraiser to help pay for
her home to be retrofitted.

Despite the challenges which lie ahead in keeping her son's physical problems in
check, Brunmier said she's confident that everything will be OK.

"I'm a real spiritual person," she said. "You have your days where you're tired
and you're done. But you have to be strong for your child."

Keri Brunmier talks about the day she learned her son would likely die before
the age of 12. Meanwhile, J.R. plays with his grandfather, Ray Kuykendall, at
The Ronald McDonald House's Orange playground. JOSHUA SUDOCK, THE REGISTER

J.R. Brunmier, 2, plays on a statue of Ronald McDonald at Ronald McDonald House.
He wears a face mask to protect against germs. A bone marrow transplant weakened
his immune system.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Story

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2008 The Orange County Register (California)
                              All Rights Reserved


                              466 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                      The Vancouver Sun (British Columbia)

                            April 16, 2011 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Police officers come out to play at Bootleggers' Ball

BYLINE: Malcolm Parry, Vancouver Sun

SECTION: WESTCOAST NEWS; Malcolm Parry; Pg. A23

LENGTH: 695  words


RUN THAT RUM: Spurred by public interest in the 1920s vice crime aspects of its
Sins of the City walking tours, the Cordova-off-Gore Vancouver Police Museum
held the Bootleggers' Ball at the Biltmore Hotel recently. Close to $10,000 was
reportedly raised. Chief Const. Jim Chu wore casual pants and shirt, but
business-liaison and social-media officer Anne Longley aced the Prohibition
theme in a $9 floozy frock from Value Village. Husband Marco, who'd hand-painted
wide stripes on a vintage suit, won for best costume.

.

RARE TO BE GREAT: Police cruisers lined Main Street off Hastings recently when
the Rare Disease Foundation's fundraiser ran in the luxurious District 319
theatre there. It was emceed by CTV news anchor Tamara Taggart, whose first of
three children, Beckett, has Down syndrome.

Many were heartened by attendee Andrea Holmes. Born with congenital fibular
hemimelia, she lost her left leg below the knee at age one and grew to be a
multi-sport Paralympics athlete. Holmes accompanied fellow West Vancouverite
Mark Taubenfligel, whose Triarchy firm, founded with siblings Adam and Ania,
produces extra-snug denim jeans. Looks like "borrowed" and "blue" is taken care
of for Holmes's bridal ensemble, possibly this fall.

.

BRIDE IN BLACK: Designer Queenie Luo gave wedding attire a jolt when Vancouver
Fashion Week kicked off Tuesday. Her white dress with feather bodice also
featured a jet-black overdress. Was it for the bride to doff when starting down
the aisle? "Perhaps," Luo said mischievously. "But she could also leave the
church and put it on."

.

THEY'RE THE TOP: Editor Gary Ross promised two surprises to conclude Vancouver
magazine's Restaurant Awards marathon at the Sheraton Wall Centre hotel this
week. The first turned out to be naming Chambar Restaurant principal Nico
Schuermans chef of the year, which surprised few and pleased many. The
eye-opener came when the restaurant of the year award went to Lucais Syme and
Adam Pegg's La Quercia. Unsurprisingly, that agreeably priced West Kitsilano
eatery offers Italian cuisine, of which city diners seemingly can't get enough.

.

GIVE AND TAKE: Dave Brubeck's jazz tune Take Five accompanied Vancouver's
lifetime achievement award going to Jack Evrensel. Fittingly, the Araxi, Blue
Water, Cin Cin and West owner has a fifth restaurant coming. Named for his
Michelin three-star pastry chef, Thierry Busset, the cupcakesized Thierry should
open on Alberni Street's 1000 block by May 31. It better, or Evrensel will have
to re-apply for a liquor licence.

.

WINNING SKIN: A mosttattooed-bartender award would have been a shoo-in for
attendee Dayna Seaward, whose whisky-slinging skills and Technicolor hide
enliven the Woodward's complex's Charles Bar. Her favourite personal needlework?
The lightly clad Seaward said it's not generally visible.

.

HARD DAY'S NIGHT: Mike's Hard Lemonade may not be the tipple of choice at
Manhattan's tony Waldorf-Astoria Hotel. Still, its maker, Anthony von Mandl, was
there with wife Debra Thursday. He presented $250,000 from the jolly juice's
huge earnings to cosmetics mogul Evelyn Lauder for the Breast Cancer Research
Foundation she founded. Actress and Lauder spokesmodel Elizabeth Hurley emceed a
related gala, with Elton John and Sting entertaining the likes of Lebanon-born
Miss USA, Rima Fakih. Von Mandl then biz-jetted to the Okanagan, where his
Mission Hill Family Winery produces beverages of higher critical esteem.

.

JUST CAME BACK: Echoing a 23-year, 13-album career, Colin James performed songs
from his recently released album Take It From The Top in the Fairmont Pacific
Rim hotel's lounge this week. Eminent and imminent folk crowded in as they did
for the Barenaked Ladies' All In Good Time release exactly a year earlier.

.

THEY SCORE: At a reception sponsored by TRG Group Benefits this week, Bonnie
Cyre said the Shooting Stars Foundation she chairs had raised $1,458,00 for HIV/
AIDS beneficiaries since 1985. The showbiz-oriented foundation then made $10,000
donations to each of 10 caring organizations. It raises funds at six annual
concerts. The newest, Soul Shake, goes at the Red Robinson Show Theatre May 7.

malcolmparry@shaw.ca 604-929-8456

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: / Const. Anne Longley and husband Marco dressed fittingly for the
Vancouver Police Museum's Bootleggers' Ball.;;  Designer Queenie Luo had Karie
Holst model her white wedding gown that comes with a black overdress.;;  Mark
Taubenfligel escorted Paralympian Andrea Holmes at a Rare Disease Foundation
fundraiser.;;  Like the moon's dark side, much of bartender Dayna Seaward's
colourful tattooing is hidden to us.;;  Colin James sang from his Take It From
The Top CD in the Fairmont Pacific Rim hotel's lounge.;;  The Shooting Stars
Foundation's Kendra Sprinkling and Bonnie Cyre presented $100,000 to HIV-AIDS
beneficiaries.;;  Gillian and Lucais Syme and Karin Pegg exulted at La Quercia's
Restaurant of The Year award.;

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Column

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2011 The Vancouver Sun, a division of CanWest MediaWorks Publication
                                      Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              467 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                              The Lima News (Ohio)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                             April 10, 2016 Sunday

Benefits set for Wapak girl battling rare disease

BYLINE: John Bush, The Lima News, Ohio

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 424 words


April 10--WAPAKONETA -- A pair of benefits for the family of a 10-year-old girl
who is battling an incurable disease will be held during the next two weeks.

Mara Moon, a fourth-grader at Wapakoneta Elementary School, has been afflicted
with a mitochondrial disease since she was 3 years old.

When she was 5, Mara was diagnosed with cyclic vomiting syndrome, a rare disease
that affects just 2 percent of school-age children. The disease causes repeated
attacks of severe nausea, vomiting and physical exhaustion that occur with no
apparent cause.

Each time she has an episode, Mara must be sedated at the hospital so her brain
can "reset," causing the vomiting to stop. Hospital visits every two to three
weeks combined with the seven medications Mara must take every day have put a
financial strain on her family.

During Easter weekend, Mara's aunts and uncles decided to organize a benefit for
their family to help curb the cost of her treatment.

On Thursday, a 1950s-themed benefit will be held from 8 to 10 p.m. at J. Marie's
Wood-Fired Kitchen & Drinks in Wapakoneta. For every '50s-themed specialty pizza
the restaurant sells that night, $2 will be donated to the Moon family. The
family will also be on hand to guest bartend, and will be accepting tips
throughout the night.

In addition to the specialty pizza, $1 from every draft beer sold and 50 cents
off every canned beer will go to the family. The benefit will also feature
entertainment by a live DJ.

Another benefit for the Moon family will be held at 4 p.m. April 23 at Astro
Lanes, also in Wapakoneta. "Scotch Doubles for Mara" will feature bowling, a
raffle, a silent auction and 50/50 drawings. The cost to bowl is $25 per couple,
and registration begins at 8 p.m. Food and drinks will be served between 4 and 6
p.m.

For those who are unable to attend either benefit but would still like to
contribute to the family, donations can be made at http://gofundme.com/cqwjf6qc.

While Mara has struggled with the disease for years, her grandmother, Kathy
Wallace, said her granddaughter is in good spirits.

"She's just a blessing, she really is," Wallace said. "She never complains, she
just takes it day by day and gets through it. She's a real trooper."

Mara is the daughter of Michael and Chariti Moon, and the granddaughter of Randy
and Kathy Wallace, John and Jenny Huebner, and Russ and Connie Moon.

Reach John Bush at 567-242-0456 or on Twitter @bush_lima.

___ (c)2016 The Lima News (Lima, Ohio) Visit The Lima News (Lima, Ohio) at
www.limaohio.com Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20160410-LM-Benefits-set-for-Wapak-girl-battling-rare-disease
-0410-20160410

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: LM


                          Copyright 2016 The Lima News


                              468 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                             Windsor Star (Ontario)

                             April 4, 2006 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Teen with rare disease on the road to recovery: Matthew Westlake dreams of life
without pain

BYLINE: Chris Thompson, Windsor Star

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A5

LENGTH: 372  words


Matthew Westlake is hoping to switch from his bulky wheelchair to his sleek
soapbox derby racer this summer.

The Windsor teen and soapbox derby racer who is battling the rare
Klippel-Trenaunay Syndrome has returned home from a month of surgeries at
Childrens Hospital Boston and is already vowing to race this summer.

"Of course I'm going to be back," said Matthew, 14, who endured two lengthy
surgeries during his stay in Boston.

The rare syndrome, which became better known when golfer Casey Martin battled
the PGA over his right to use a golf cart, causes blood vessels to grow
uncontrollably in large bundles.

Matthew has travelled to Boston several times since his first diagnosis in 1999
and during this recent surgery had corrections to the urethra and sclerotherapy
on his left leg.

Before the surgeries Matthew was heavily drugged and in intense pain that
prevented him from walking.

Now Matthew is much more mobile, although physicians advise he should try and
remain in his red wheelchair.

The Westlakes are now adapting their home to handle Matthew, knocking out some
walls to accommodate the wheelchair.

They will also have to install a wheelchair ramp at the front of their Turner
Road home.

The most recent trip to Boston may have been Matthew's last.

A world-renowned expert on Klippel-Trenaunay works there but now the Ontario
Hospital Insurance Plan has told the family they will have to travel to Toronto,
where doctors with the Hospital for Sick Children will consult doctors in
Boston.

His disease is so rare there is no comparable expert in Canada.

Matthew said he is still in pain, just in different areas.

"Now it's a matter of finding what his limitations are," said Matthew's mother
Denise.

"It's a matter of finding out how far he can push himself before the pain is too
great."

While in Boston, Matthew renewed his friendship with Boston fire department
Capt. Paul Carey.

Carey, in what has become a ritual during his visits, brought Matthew a Carvel
ice cream cake.

Matthew, who has missed most of this school year, will begin to be visited by an
in-house tutor soon.

The plan is for him to attend Holy Names High School in the fall because it is
handicapped accessible.

cthompson@thestar.canwest.com or 255-5777, ext. 689

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:
Photo: Jason Kryk, Star photo; FEELING BETTER: Matthew Westlake suffers from a
rare medical condition called Klippel-Trenaunay Syndrome ;
Photo: Paul Carey

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2006 Windsor Star, a division of CanWest MediaWorks Publication Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              469 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                            February 13, 2009 Friday

ROSS CHARITY PLEA OVER LOWE DISEASE

BYLINE: BY STANDARD REPORTER

LENGTH: 86 words


A rare disease that can cause blindness in young boys could be cured if more
money was donated for research, a charity said today.

The charity, backed by Jonathan Ross, is the main organisation raising money for
work into Lowe Syndrome, a genetic condition that causes physical and mental
problems. Lorraine Thomas set up the Lowe Syndrome Trust 10 years ago after her
son was diagnosed with the disease. Visit www.lowetrust.com for more details.

Support: BBC presenter Jonathan Ross is a trustee of the Lowe Syndrome Trust

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright  2009    Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              470 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                            February 21, 2010 Sunday

MNIK's Asperger syndrome decoded

BYLINE: Anupriya Jolly

SECTION: HEALTH

LENGTH: 207 words


In Karan Johar's latest film My Name is Khan, Shah Rukh Khan suffers from a rare
disease called Asperger syndrome. This syndrome is an autism spectrum disorder
and affects a person's behaviour and perception.

"People with Asperger's have a special ability to remember a particular event in
a detailed manner. But they don't understand the social context of the
situation," says Dr Rajendra Barve, psychologist.

The ailment is named after the Austrian pediatrician Hans Asperger. Hans
discovered this disease in 1944. Asperger's can't be detected easily. Symptoms
of Asperger syndrome include being an introvert, repetitive behaviour and
reluctance to listen.

"These cases cannot be detected easily and are sometimes not diagnosed. These
people can have a normal professional life but are extremely difficult in
personal relations," says Dr Barve.

Some of the famous people like Adolf Hitler, Jane Austen and Leonardo da Vinci
are speculated to be suffering from this disease. "These cases are as rare as
Auro's in Paa," Barve adds.

There is no drug that can cure this syndrome, but a lot of research is taking
place towards the right direction.

Follow us on Twitter for more stories http://twitter.com/toilifestyle

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              471 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                       The Daily Gleaner (New Brunswick)

                           December 24, 2015 Thursday

Province to fund medication for child with rare disease

SECTION: INTERNATIONAL; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 723 words


FREDERICTON * Carolle Mazerolle was cleaning her house for Christmas when the
call came that could save her young son's life.

On the other end of the line was Health Minister Victor Boudreau, who told the
Baie-Sainte-Anne family that government will fund the first year of 10-year-old
Morgan Doucet's treatment for a rare disease called Morquio Syndrome.

Mazerolle started crying. This time, they were happy tears.

"Best Christmas ever," she said.

People with Morquio Syndrome are missing an enzyme in their blood responsible
for breaking down cellular waste in the body. Without it, waste builds up in
bones, tissues, organs and muscles, causing heart and airway disease, stiffening
in the joints, shortened stature, and in some cases, premature death. Morgan is
believed to be the only person in the province with type A of the disease.

There isn't a cure, but a new drug called Vimizim, approved by Health Canada in
2014, could help. At a cost of up to $300,000 per year, it was out of reach for
Morgan's family.

Initially, government rejected the family's application to fund the drug. With
no opportunity to appeal, they decided to go public and appeal directly to
Boudreau, urging him to reverse the decision.

At the time, the health minister admitted the file was a difficult one. Some
cases, he said, get approved and others will not.

"Everybody in this legislature has a heart and understands that these decisions
are difficult to make," Boudreau said.

Morgan's story started travelling. National news outlets picked it up. And
Progressive Conservative MLA Jake Stewart of Miramichi-Bay du Vin pleaded
Morgan's case in the Legislature, urging Boudreau to reconsider.

Mazerolle and her husband, Glen Doucet, were flooded with well wishes, support
and outrage from people who didn't understand why government couldn't make an
exception for Morgan.

With pressure mounting, the government announced last week that it would take a
second look.

That's when Mazerolle sat down with her son and explained the consequences for
the first time. Morgan has always known he was sick. But he didn't know how
sick.

"He told me he was scared, because it wasn't a yes and he didn't want to die
young."

When Mazerolle stopped cleaning to answer the phone, and she heard Boudreau's
voice on the other line, she was overjoyed. Boudreau delivered the news to
Morgan, and both told Morgan's father when he returned home later in the day.

The government will pay for the drug for 12 months, starting after the holidays.
It will be part of a treatment plan approved by Morgan's geneticist at the IWK
Children's Hospital in Halifax.

The decision, Boudreau said in a statement, was made after "additional review
and consultations." The one-year period will allow for an assessment of the
drug's effectiveness.

"New Brunswick will continue to collaborate with other provinces and territories
on a consistent, national approach to review expensive drugs for rare diseases,"
Boudreau said. "Any further decisions to provide coverage for Vimizim (such
drugs) will continue to be made on a case-by-case basis and will rely on
recommendations by out-of-province specialists."

Mazerolle hopes her son will have less fatigue and vomiting, more energy,
durability and strength. Based on other cases, she said the drug can start to
show improvement in as little as 12 weeks.

"I know it works," she said.

Not long after Morgan's family received the good news, Stewart received a flurry
of texts from people who had followed Morgan's story.

"I think that's the best news that Morgan could have got and so close to
Christmas, it's a great story for the boy and his family," the Tory MLA said.
"I'm very happy about that."

Despite his grilling in question period, Stewart said he never blamed government
for the decision to reject Morgan's application. Every government, including the
previous Tory government, is faced with hard decisions such as this one, he
said.

"I just felt they needed to act on it and they have. This is really
encouraging."

He would like to see the government consider funding the drug in the long term
for other children who may need it.

Back at the Doucet-Mazerolle home in Baie-Sainte-Anne, the Christmas clean-up
would have to wait. It was time to celebrate.

"Best Christmas gift we could ever get," Glen Doucet said. !@COPYRIGHT=© 2015
The Daily Gleaner (Fredericton)

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2015 The Daily Gleaner
                              All Rights Reserved


                              472 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                 Jerusalem Post

                             June 6, 2013 Thursday

Rare genetic disease affecting Arab children discovered by researchers at Sheba
Medical Center

BYLINE: JUDY SIEGEL

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 754 words


A rare genetic disease that weakens the immune system of children has been
discovered among Arab children by an international group of researchers headed
by Israelis at Sheba Medical Center at Tel Hashomer.

Information on the discovery of the "orphan disease" (suffered by a relatively
small group) was published Thursday morning in the prestigious New England
Journal of Medicine.

What began as a clinical observation of a unique phenotype in sick patients has
finally been concluded by using advanced genetic and molecular assays to
discover the novel disease, said Dr. Raz Somech at the Safra Children's Hospital
at Sheba. He and some two dozen researchers, including Dr. Christoph Klein,
director of Dr. von Hauner University Children's Hospital in Munich and Bill
Gahl of the US National Institutes of Health in Bethesda, Maryland, worked on
it.

They observed that the seven affected children suffered from life-threatening
infections during the first two years of their lives; their research led to the
discovery of an unusual bone marrow malfunction due to mutations in a gene named
VPS45 (Vacuolar Protein Sorting 45) as the cause of the disease, which they
called congenital neutrophil defect syndrome. It is estimated that there are
dozens of such cases in the Palestinian Authority; none has yet been found among
Israeli Arabs.

Five of the children studied were Palestinian Arabs treated at Sheba, while two
were Moroccan Arabs treated in Munich. Some of them have already died. All of
the children are the result of consanguinity - inbreeding of first cousins - and
their illness could have been prevented if their parents had not married, Somech
told The Jerusalem Post on Wednesday.

No Jews have been identified with the syndrome, but Somech said that "now we
will be able to look. It is a rare disease, but because of consanguinity in this
region, we are likely to see many more cases than in other countries."

In addition to the inbreeding problem, few Arab women agree to undergo
abortions. The replacement of stem cells could successfully treat it, but since
there is only a small database of Arab tissue types because few donate such
samples, it is unlikely that compatible tissue could be found. No suitable
donors were found in the small Arab tissue type registry at Hadassah-University
Medical Center in Jerusalem's Ein Kerem, Somech said.

If the victims of the disease were Jewish children, it is likely that they could
be successfully treated, as there are hundreds of thousands of Jews who undergo
voluntary tissue testing so a compatible donor could be found, he added.

The Sheba team are now considering a different - biological - treatment that
could prevent the need for bone marrow transplantation for the children who lack
a healthy gene.

Children with orphan diseases are at a disadvantage in many ways. They are taken
from one doctor to the next in the hope of a treatment or cure being found. In
addition, drug companies are very reluctant to invest huge sums to develop
treatments when only a small number of patients are involved.

However, genetic research can identify such diseases, and such work can
contribute to the advancement of modern medicine, because the examination of
these children can supply insights into fundamental principles of biology.

The authors of the paper wrote that the gene VPS45 has several functions in
blood cells - it is responsible for membrane transport, for the vitality of the
cells and their migration characteristics.

"On the one hand, the identification of this disease and the discovery of its
molecular mechanism creates a justified hope for affected patients, as young
patients can now receive blood stem cell transplantation earlier" if suitable
donors were available.

On the other hand, this research illustrates the importance of new signalling
pathways that can possibly influence the therapy of the future - not only for
children with rare diseases, but also for younger and older patients with common
diseases.

Sheba was been recently acknowledged as a "Jeffrey Modell Diagnostic and
Research Center for Primary Immunodeficiency"- which is the worldwide gold
standard benchmark for excellence in this field.

The center serves patients from the whole Middle East region, including the
Palestinian Authority and runs a collaboration with Palestinian doctors. The
purpose of the center is to better diagnose, treat and cure patients suffering
from primary immunodeficiency and to characterize and understand the immune
system both healthy and diseased, Somech said.

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: DR. RAZ SOMECH: 'It is a rare disease, but... we are likely to
see many more cases than in other countries.' (Credit: Courtesy Sheba)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2013 The Jerusalem Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              473 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                     November 20, 2014 Thursday 6:30 AM EST

Global Cushing's Syndrome Therapeutics Market 2015-2019: Key Vendors - Corcept
Therapeutics, HRA Pharma, Novartis

LENGTH: 369  words


Nov. 20 -- Ireland-based Research and Markets issued the following news release:

Research and Markets has announced the addition of the "Global Cushing's
Syndrome Therapeutics Market 2015-2019" report to their offering.

One major trend upcoming in this market is the increase in public awareness of
Cushing's syndrome. This is expected to lead to an increase in the number of
treatment-seeking patients, thereby giving rise to the consumption of
medications.

According to the report, the major driving factor of the market is the presence
of a huge unmet need in this rare disease area. Few FDA-approved drugs are
available, and the use of off-label drugs can cause several adverse effects.
Thus, drug makers have the opportunity to produce therapies which can give them
an edge over others and seize a major portion of the total market.

Further, the report states that the adverse effects of the drugs used to treat
Cushing's syndrome are a major challenge to the growth of the market. Patient
incompatibility leads to an increase in the churn-out rate of the patients from
the treatment. This results in restraining the market growth.

The study was conducted using an objective combination of primary and secondary
information including inputs from key participants in the industry.

Key Topics Covered:

01. Executive Summary

02. List of Abbreviations

03. Scope of the Report

04. Product Profiles

05. Market Research Methodology

06. Introduction

07. Disease Overview

08. Market Landscape

09. Market Segmentation by Class of Drugs

10. Market Segmentation by Route of Administration

11. Market Segmentation by Dosage Form

12. Geographical Segmentation

13. Buying Criteria

14. Market Growth Drivers

15. Drivers and their Impact

16. Market Challenges

17. Impact of Drivers and Challenges

18. Market Trends

19. Trends and their Impact

20. Vendor Landscape

21. Pipeline Portfolio

22. Key Vendor Analysis

23. Other Reports in this Series

Companies Mentioned:

* Corcept Therapeutics

* HRA Pharma

* Novartis

* Aspireo Pharmaceuticals

* Cortendo

* ElexoPharm

* Ipsen

* Isis Pharmaceuticals

* Orphagen Pharmaceuticals

* Samaritan Pharmaceuticals

For more information visit
(http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/xn5gzj/global_cushings).

Source: Research and Markets

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2014 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              474 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                      Orange County Register (California)

                             June 21, 2014 Saturday

Event in Costa Mesa focuses on rare disease

BYLINE: Courtney Perkes STAFF writer, The Orange County Register

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. B

LENGTH: 324 words



HIGHLIGHT: Conference will look at syndrome that occurs in roughly 1 in 10,000
births.


Traci Weber has never met anyone who suffers from the same rare genetic disorder
as her 4-year-old son, who still fits into baby clothes and can't speak.

That will change next week when Weber, of Irvine, attends a national conference
for the Cornelia de Lange Syndrome Foundation in Costa Mesa. Her son, Jacob, was
diagnosed a few days after birth with the condition, which is marked by traits
such as small size, thin eyebrows that meet in the middle, and thin, down-turned
lips.

"I was happy it was coming here," Weber said. "I will be bringing Jacob. I'm
really eager."

The conference takes place Thursday through Sunday and will draw about 140
families. Speakers include UC Irvine professors Arthur Lander and Anne Calof,
whose infant daughter died of the syndrome in 2000. They collaborated on
research that identified the causative gene in 2004.

The syndrome occurs in roughly 1 in 10,000 births. Children may suffer
intellectual disabilities, gastroesophageal reflux disease, bowel obstruction,
hearing loss and congenital heart defects.

Weber's son weighs only 21 pounds and receives nutrition through a feeding tube.
He sees an array of specialists and goes to physical, occupational and speech
therapy. He crawls and eventually will learn to walk.

"He's easygoing," she said. "He's super happy. He's just the sweetest thing. He
loves music."

Jacob was delivered 6 weeks early because he wasn't growing well in utero.
Weber, 42, said she sometimes tells strangers he's a preemie because it's easier
than explaining a condition most people have never heard of.

Brenda Shepard, communications coordinator for the foundation, said more
awareness is needed to ensure timely diagnosis.

"They may have some of the symptoms and some of the facial features but if their
medical provider doesn't know about CDLS they could be missing serious medical
issues that could be life-saving," Shepard said.

For more information on the foundation, visit cdlsusa.org

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE:  Story

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2014 Orange County Register
                              All Rights Reserved


                              475 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                       Daily Gazette (Sterling, Illinois)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                             June 2, 2016 Thursday

Benefit set for toddler with rare disease

BYLINE: Christopher Heimerman, Daily Gazette, Sterling, Ill.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 508 words


June 02--STERLING -- It's starting to sink in for Aaron Christensen that on June
12, he'll be the man of the hour -- for 8 hours.

A benefit will be held at Cochran's Pub, 13464 Galt Road, from noon to 8 p.m.
for the 4-year-old who has Nicolaides-Baraitser Syndrome, a rare disease that
will likely limit his cognitive development to that of a toddler.

This past weekend, he and his mother, Sara, hopped in her dad's new Mitsubishi
convertible to visit Cochran's.

"I think he's getting a little bit excited about this party," Sara said. "He was
just in the back, loving life."

"You could tell he was just loving the open air," her dad, Charlie Bennett,
said.

Aaron will need lifelong care, and money raised will help him get crucial items
such as a service dog, medical bed, and sensory room. He lives with his parents
-- Sara and his dad, Drew -- two biological siblings, and three foster siblings
in Fond du Lac, Wisconsin.

Charlie and his wife, Kim, have been fixtures in Sterling for a long time, and
their network has helped build a massive fundraiser.

"My dad kind of knows everybody," she said. "I knew we wouldn't get the same
sort of support in Fond du Lac that we're getting here. People left and right
are coming up big for us. We haven't been here in so long, and all these people
are coming out of the woodwork."

There will be two silent auctions, a live auction, a lottery board raffle (the
prize is a cork board full of lottery tickets), face-painting, a bounce house, a
dunk tank, and more. Drew Dawson, The Catfish Dogs and "American Idol"
contestant and Morrison native Alex Fischbach are scheduled to perform.

Lunch and dinner -- a hot dog, chips, cookie and soda or water -- will be sold
for $5 apiece. A mystery gun auction through Rigler's Shooting & Fishing in Rock
Falls will be held at 3:30 p.m.

For those yet to plan summer vacations -- or vacations for future seasons -- the
silent auction prizes will include a 1-week vacation at Casa Cortez in Playa Del
Rey, Mexico, which will include weeklong maid and concierge service, limousine
service and a personal chef. Sara, who's organizing the event, said the vacation
package is worth $7,000. Other destinations include Disneyland, Palm Springs,
Florida, and a superior wine experience in Sonoma, California.

Sara said she's up to 40 gift baskets for the silent auction, and donations just
keep coming.

"I'm kind of amazed about the number of people who are stepping up," Charlie
said.

Charlie will be the first of several local celebrities to take a seat in the
dunk tank. He officiated sports throughout the Sauk Valley for many years, so
any former athletes who are looking to express lingering frustration over any
calls will get their shot at retribution.

"I'm extremely excited for the event," said Charlie, pointing out that Aaron's
fifth birthday is 4 days after the event. "It's going to be like a birthday
party for him, too."

___ (c)2016 the Daily Gazette (Sterling, Ill.) Visit the Daily Gazette
(Sterling, Ill.) at www.saukvalley.com Distributed by Tribune Content Agency,
LLC.

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20160602-YG-Benefit-set-for-toddler-with-rare-disease-0602-20160602

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: YG


                          Copyright 2016 Daily Gazette


                              476 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                              May 27, 2013 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

My life as a zombie, by victim of walking corpse syndrome

BYLINE: Ben Bryant

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 495 words


A PATIENT has written a disturbing account of life with a condition which makes
him think he is dead - and how he spent his days in graveyards as it was "the
closest I could get to death".

The British man, identified only as Graham, woke up nine years ago convinced
that he was no longer alive even though he was still breathing.

Doctors diagnosed him with Cotard's Syndrome, also known as "walking corpse
syndrome" because it makes people think they have turned into zombies. Graham
did not believe them, however, and insisted that his brain was dead.

The unusual condition emerged after Graham, who suffered from severe depression,
tried to commit suicide by taking an electrical appliance with him into the
bath.

Eight months later he told doctors that his brain had died or was, at best,
missing.

He stopped speaking and refused to eat as there was "no point because I was
dead". Only through months of therapy and treatment was he able to overcome the
condition and live anything approaching a normal life. Cotard's Syndrome is
among the most rare diseases in the world and it is thought that it affects just
a few hundred people at any one time. It is linked to depression and comes in a
variety of forms, including some sufferers who feel that their limbs are no
longer functioning.

Writing in New Scientist magazine, Graham describes how baffled doctors referred
him to neurologists Adam Zeman at the University of Exeter and Steven Laureys at
the University of LiÈge in Belgium.

At the time, Graham was being looked after by his family because his illness had
become so bad.

He said: "I didn't want to face people. There was no point. I didn't feel
pleasure in anything. I used to idolise my car, but I didn't go near it. All the
things I was interested in went away. I lost my sense of smell and my sense of
taste. There was no point in eating because I was dead. It was a waste of time
speaking as I never had anything to say."

The nadir was when he felt compelled to go to his local cemetery as he thought
he would fit in. He said: "I just felt I might as well stay there. It was the
closest I could get to death. The police would come and get me, though, and take
me back home."

Graham's recovery started with scans which found that levels of activity in
parts of his brain were so low they were more consistent with somebody in a
vegetative state. Mr Laureys said: "Graham's brain function resembles that of
someone during anaesthesia or sleep."

Graham is now on the road to recovery. He said that he is not really back to
normal but can go out of the house on his own and "feels a lot better" than he
was.

He said: "I don't feel that brain-dead any more. Things just feel a bit bizarre
sometimes.

"I'm not afraid of death. But that's not to do with what happened - we're all
going to die sometime. I'm just lucky to be alive now."

'There was no point in eating because I was dead. It was a waste of time
speaking as I never had anything to say'

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              477 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                    The Laurinburg Exchange (North Carolina)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           February 22, 2014 Saturday

Locals work to raise awareness of rare diseases

BYLINE: The Laurinburg Exchange, N.C.

SECTION: LIFESTYLE

LENGTH: 251 words


Feb. 22--LAURINBURG -- Laurinburg Mayor Tommy Parker this week signed a
proclamation in support of Rare Disease Awareness Week, which commemorates
people who have died from or are living with rare conditions.

During the week, local churches, companies, and schools will participate in
support of Rare Disease Day on Feb. 28 by wearing jeans with Rare Disease Day
ribbons, creating handprints through art activities to support the logo and
participating in Handprints Across America to take photos to support the event.

There will also be a candlelight vigil at the Board of Education building in
honor of people who have suffered with rare diseases, such as the son of
Laurinburg resident and Scotland County schools employee Chaka Davis, Tristan,
who died from complications of Jeune's Syndrome which affected his bones,
kidneys, and chest wall. Tristan's family was told by physicians that he was the
only child with it in 2010 in North Carolina. His birthday was on Feb. 27.

Davis has consulted and partnered with organizations such as the Global Genes
Project of San Diego, Calif. and the National Organizaton of Rare Disorders in
Washington, DC, and is will encourage the observance of Rare Disease Day in
Scotland County, Rockingham and Chapel Hill.

For information, call Chaka Davis at 910-336-2346 or Essie Davis at
910-384-4291.

___ (c)2014 The Laurinburg Exchange (Laurinburg, N.C.) Visit The Laurinburg
Exchange (Laurinburg, N.C.) at www.laurinburgexchange.com Distributed by MCT
Information Services

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20140222-1LX-Locals-work-to-raise-awareness-of-rare-diseases
-0222-20140222

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1LX


                     Copyright 2014 The Laurinburg Exchange


                              478 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                      November 7, 2016 Monday 6:30 AM EST

ArQule Reports Third Quarter 2016 Financial Results

LENGTH: 1283  words


Nov. 7 -- ArQule, Inc. (Nasdaq: ARQL) today announced its financial results for
the third quarter of 2016.

For the quarter ended September 30, 2016, the Company reported a net loss of
$5,817,000 or $0.08 per share, compared to a net loss of $2,354,000 or $0.04 per
share, for the third quarter of 2015. For the nine-month period ended September
30, 2016, the Company reported a net loss of $15,898,000 or $0.23 per share,
compared to a net loss of $10,922,000 or $0.17 per share for the nine-month
period ended September 30, 2015.

At September 30, 2016, the Company had a total of $37,659,000 in cash,
equivalents and marketable securities.

Key Highlights

* ARQ 087, our proprietary FGFR inhibitor, is approaching completion of
enrollment in the phase 2 portion of the phase 1/2 trial in intrahepatic
cholangiocarcinoma (iCCA). Discussions with regulatory agencies in the U.S. and
Europe are nearing completion for the design of a potential pivotal trial in
iCCA. We plan to finalize the trial design by year end pending final trial
results.

* ARQ 531, our proprietary reversible BTK inhibitor, continues to demonstrate
best-in-class potential with preclinical data to be presented at the 2016
American Society of Hematology (ASH) Annual Meeting. The data, to be presented
by The Ohio State University, demonstrate that ARQ 531 effectively inhibits
C481S mutant BTK in patient derived cells and in a TCL1 mouse model shows
efficacy superior to that of ibrutinib in Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia (CLL).
The company plans to complete preclinical studies and file an Investigational
New Drug (IND) application in early 2017 to begin clinical trials with an
initial focus on the fast-to-market, ibrutinib resistant C481S mutant BTK CLL
population.

* ARQ 092, our lead proprietary AKT inhibitor, continues to demonstrate the
potential utility of targeting AKT in rare non-oncological indications and will
be the focus of an oral presentation at the ASH Annual Meeting. The data, to be
presented by The University of Illinois College of Medicine, demonstrate that in
neutrophils and platelets from Sickle Cell Disease (SCD) patients in vitro and
cell-cell interactions in a mouse model of SCD, ARQ 092 attenuates
neutrophil-platelet interactions. The study provides evidence that ARQ 092 could
be a novel therapy in treating and preventing acute vaso-occlusive complications
in SCD. The data warrants further studies of ARQ 092 in SCD.

* ARQ 092 phase 1 trial for Proteus syndrome continues to enroll and our
collaborator, the National Institutes of Health (NIH), is in the final stages of
implementing an updated enrollment protocol that will facilitate logistics for
patients and their families. To date, the drug has been well tolerated, and we
are looking forward to assessing full data from the initial two cohorts in the
early part of next year.

* ARQ 092 clinical research to be expanded into PROS (PIK3CA-Related Overgrowth
Spectrum) family of rare diseases. The company received approval of its IND
application from the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in the PROS family of
rare diseases, including Proteus syndrome, for a potential clinical trial.

* Tivantinib METIV-HCC phase 3 trial for hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is
scheduled to conclude in early 2017. Top-line data is expected in the first
quarter of 2017.

"It is exciting to see our proprietary pipeline being pursued independently and
through collaborations with the top researchers in the fields of oncology,
hematology and selected rare diseases," said Paolo Pucci, Chief Executive
Officer of ArQule. "We are encouraged that several projects have attracted the
interest of leading scientific institutions including ARQ 531, our BTK
inhibitor, which is in preclinical testing with our collaborators at The Ohio
State University. ARQ 092 continues to progress in Proteus syndrome through a
program that includes a phase 1 trial conducted by the NIH. In addition, we now
have preclinical data for ARQ 092 in Sickle Cell Disease through the work of The
University of Illinois College of Medicine. Lastly, we are pleased to have moved
closer to a potential pivotal trial in an attractive fast to market opportunity
for ARQ 087 in iCCA."

"Our lead proprietary drug candidate, ARQ 087, is nearing completion of the
phase 2 iCCA trial," said Dr. Brian Schwartz, M.D., Head of Research and
Development and Chief Medical Officer at ArQule. "Encouraging discussions and
positive feedback from the regulatory agencies, combined with the totality of
the efficacy data we have observed in the clinical trials, has moved us closer
to defining a pivotal trial design for ARQ 087 in this indication."

Revenues and Expenses

Revenues for the quarter ended September 30, 2016, were $1,223,000 compared with
revenues of $2,653,000 for the quarter ended September 30, 2015. Revenues in the
nine-months ended September 30, 2016 were $3,522,000 compared with revenues of
$8,442,000 in the nine-months ended September 30, 2015. Revenue in the three and
nine-month periods of 2016 and 2015 is comprised of revenue from the Daiichi
Sankyo tivantinib development agreement and the Kyowa Hakko Kirin exclusive
license agreement.

The revenue decreases in the quarter ended September 30, 2016 of $0.5 million
from our Daiichi Sankyo METIV-HCC trial and $1.0 million from our Kyowa Hakko
Kirin JET-HCC trial were principally due to the March 2016 extension of the
development period through December 31, 2016 for both programs. The revenue
decreases in the nine months ended September 30, 2016 of $2.0 million from our
Daiichi Sankyo METIV-HCC trial and $2.9 million from our Kyowa Hakko Kirin
JET-HCC trial were also principally due to the extension of the development
period through December 31, 2016.

Research and development expense in the third quarter of 2016 was $5,265,000
compared with $3,180,000 for the third quarter of 2015. The $2.1 million
increase in research and development expense in the third quarter of 2016 was
principally due to increased outsourced clinical and product development costs
of $1.9 million and professional fees of $0.2 million.

Research and development expense in the nine-months ended September 30, 2016 was
$13,800,000 compared with $11,920,000 in the nine-months ended September 30,
2015. The $1.9 million increase in research and development expense in the
nine-months ended September 30, 2016 was primarily due to increased outsourced
clinical and product development costs of $2.6 million and professional fees of
$0.2 million, partially offset by decreased labor and related costs of $0.4
million and facility costs of $0.5 million.

General and administrative expense was $1,824,000 in the third quarter of 2016
compared with $1,839,000 in the third quarter 2015.

General and administrative expense was $5,755,000 in the nine-months ended
September 30, 2016 compared with $7,802,000 in the nine-months ended September
30, 2015. General and administrative expense decreased by $2.0 million in the
nine-months ended September 30, 2016 primarily due to lower facility costs of
$1.6 million, labor related costs of $0.2 million and professional fees of $0.2
million.

Conference Call and Webcast

ArQule will hold its third quarter 2016 financial results call today, November
7, 2016 at 9:00 a.m. ET. The live webcast can be accessed in the "Investors &
Media" section of our website, www.arqule.com, under "Events & Presentations".
You may also listen to the call by dialing (877) 868-1831 within the U.S. or
(914) 495-8595 outside the U.S. A replay will be available two hours after the
completion of the call and can be accessed in the "Investor and Media" section
of our website, www.arqule.com, under "Events & Presentations".

Source: ArQule

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2016 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              479 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                Mail & Guardian

                               February 25, 2011

There's solace in numbers in the world of rare diseases

BYLINE: Morgan Morris

SECTION: NATIONAL

LENGTH: 1858 words



HIGHLIGHT: It's been a long journey of discovery for the family of a Cape Town
girl who suffers from cystinosis.>


In the world of rare diseases, the story of the Daniels family in Kraaifontein,
Cape Town, is probably typical.

For instance, it took parents Gail and Colin Daniels more than 11 years to put a
name to the condition -- cystinosis -- that had dogged their daughter, Danielle,
since birth. It is a disease that has stunted her growth, slowed her learning,
made her a fixture in doctors' offices and hospital wards and subjected her to a
rigid diet of supplements and boosters.

The family had its first scare when Danielle was hospitalised when she was only
a few months old. By age two, doctors looked at her small frame and bowed legs.
She "waddled", her mother said. She suspected that her child had rickets, a
disease, common in Africa, that is characterised by the softening of what are
meant to be growing bones. It is caused by a shortage of both vitamin D and
calcium.

Narrowing down the condition But after months of tests, mad dashes to the
hospital, a string of specialists and a babble of misdiagnoses, doctors finally
narrowed down her condition to Fanconi syndrome.

Named after a Swiss paediatrician, the syndrome affects the ducts or tubes
leading from the kidney. These ducts are meant to salvage essential nutrients
from fluids passing through the kidneys. But in this syndrome the ducts are
unable to do so and precious glucose, carbohydrates, phosphates, amino acids and
minerals are passed out in the urine. Without those essential nutrients a
rogue's gallery of troubles follow, rickets and weak bone formation -- leading
to that waddling and underdevelopment -- among them.

There is no cure for Fanconi syndrome. Instead, patients are put on a lifelong
course of boosters, supplements, vitamins, phosphate replacements and citrates
to make up for the shortfall of minerals.

So for the years that followed Danielle's life revolved around daily handfuls of
pills, potions and powders. She dared not skip a dosage. "It's normal now," she
says of this regimen.

But, despite the medication, her problems persisted. There were threats of
kidney failure, she was in and out of hospital and her eyesight weakened enough
to scare the family. Also patients are commonly lethargic, so learning is slow.

Her mother, a teacher, became increasingly frustrated with evasive doctors. So
she started her own research, foraging whatever she could from newspapers and
the web. "The funny thing was that I couldn't tell the doctors anything I knew,"
she says. "They didn't want me to know."

But it was this research that pointed her in the direction of cystinosis. "The
name kept coming up whenever you read about Fanconi."

Naming the disease Cystinosis borrows its name from a namesake gene, the
cystinosis gene. Also known as CTNS, the gene provides the instructions to
produce a transport protein -- cystinosin -- inside compartments in the cell
known as lysosomes.

Inside these lysosomes, the cystinosin is broken down into its smaller building
blocks, amino acids, including one known as cystine. Living up to its job title,
the cystinosin then carries the cystine out of the lysosomes.

When it is unable to do so, the cells produce too little cystinosin or the
cystinosin is too weak to carry out its transport duties. Cystine accumulates in
the lysosomes and grows into crystals. These crystals then destroy the
lysosomes, the cells and ultimately the body's tissues.

The crystals typically form in the brain, liver, thyroid, pancreas, muscles and
particularly in the kidneys and eyes. In the kidneys it damages ducts that can
lead to full-blown kidney failure, necessitating kidney transplants. In the eyes
the cystine crystals build up in the cornea, triggering extreme sensitivity to
light (photophobia) and eventual blindness.

Cystinosis can be put down to a stroke of poor genetic luck. Both parents,
unaffected by the condition, have to carry the faulty CTNS gene. Each parent
then passes on a copy of that gene to their child.

Statistically, there's a 25% chance that parents carrying the mutated gene will
have a child with cystinosis. Gail and Colin have a second child, a son, Dane
(20), who does not have cystinosis.

A childhood disease, cystinosis is considered rare. It is said to affect one
child in every 100 000 to 200 000 live births. According to available
statistics, only about 2 000 people around the world have been diagnosed with
cystinosis. But elementary mathematics -- one in 200 000 in a world population
of 6,7-billion people -- would suggest that that number is way off the mark.

"A lot of children probably die from this condition without it being diagnosed,
especially in the developing world," said Dr Peter Nourse, the paediatric
nephrologist at Cape Town's Red Cross Children's Hospital who treats Danielle.

With about 14 patients at Cape Town's Red Cross and Tygerberg hospitals, Nourse
has good reason to think that the disease is more common than statistics bear
out. "We haven't worked out the true incidence in South Africa, but it does seem
that there are quite a lot of cases, actually," he says.

Treatment Although there is no cure for cystinosis, there is a treatment in a
drug called cysteamine. It was Gail who stumbled on it in a newspaper article
about another Red Cross doctor who was treating cases of photophobia with eye
drops he'd cooked up, using cysteamine as the main ingredient.

Cysteamine breaks down the stored-up cystine into a similarly named amino acid,
cysteine, and a cysteine-cysteamine mix, both of which are flushed out of the
lysosomes. But one needs regular fixes: a cysteamine drink (drug plus distilled
water) has to be downed every six hours like clockwork, the eye drops
administered hourly.

Also, the cocktail tastes "disgusting", so doctors, parents and caregivers have
their work cut out feeding it to children four times a day, says Nourse. Even
hardened nurses have been known to recoil at the smell.

Danielle is more fortunate. She takes an easier-to-keep-down capsule version of
cysteamine, Cystagon, which costs about R18 000 a month, a bill footed by the
family's medical aid scheme.

Cystagon was developed as an orphan drug -- medication for rare diseases -- in
the United States, where it has been prescribed for cystinosis for the past 15
years. It's not readily available or licensed in South Africa, though. So the
family also had to jump through a number of bureaucratic hoops to have the drug
imported.

There's the potential of an even sweeter pill on the horizon. Raptor
Pharmaceuticals in the US is making headway on a delayed-release version of the
treatment, to be known as DR Cysteamine. It's hoped that DR Cysteamine will cut
out some of Cystagon's side effects and halve the daily dosage.

"The new formulation should be better tolerated and taken only every 12 hours,"
reports Margret Kamel, a research coordinator with a team conducting phase-three
human trials on the drug at Emory Children's Centre in the US.

Joining forces But how is it that cystinosis is worthy of all this attention?
After all, the markets for treatments for most rare diseases are usually too
small to coax companies to do the necessary R&D.

"Funding for rare diseases is very uneven," points out cystinosis guru Dr
William A Gahl, clinical director at the National Human Genome Research
Institute in Maryland in the US. "Cystinosis, too, languished for a while."

But the condition piqued academic interest because of its "intriguing basis" as
a lysosomal transport defect, says Gahl. Researchers hope that treatments for a
few dozen inherited metabolic disorders, also linked to faulty lysosomes, can be
developed on the back of cystinosis studies.

Cystinosis also benefits from the American Orphan Drug Act, which allows
pharmaceutical companies to sell their orphan drugs without fear of competition
for a full seven years.

Families push for research But most of the credit should go to one American
family. Under the banner of the Cystinosis Research Foundation (CRF) they
established in 2003, Nancy and Geoffrey Stack, whose 19-year-old daughter
Natalie has cystinosis, have raised around $12-million, money they distribute in
research grants. That makes the family the largest supporter of cystinosis
research in the world.

It was a CRF-funded researcher,  for example, who did the groundwork for the new
delayed-release cysteamine. The foundation's latest project is the establishment
of the first and only international patient registry, named the .

"Our goal is to get every patient with cystinosis to register," says Nancy. "By
doing so, we'll have a more thorough picture of cystinosis and its
complications, providing our research teams with information they so desperately
need to discover novel treatments and a cure."

And a cure is exactly where the CRF is headed next. Recently the foundation
established the CRF Gene Therapy Consortium, which includes experts in gene and
stem-cell therapy.

Working with mouse models, researchers at Scripps Institute in San Diego have
used stem cells extracted from bone marrow to express a more shipshape CTNS
gene. This revitalised gene was then able to reverse the accumulation of cystine
in the cell and subsequent cell death.

The scientists are optimistic but cautious. "These data are very promising, but
the translation from mice to humans does not always reproduce the same effect,"
says Dr Stephanie Cherqui, assistant professor in the department of molecular
and experimental medicine at Scripps.

Support and education The Daniels family is playing its part. In 2010 Gail and
Colin established the South African Cystinosis Support Group, affiliated to the
US-based Cystinosis Foundation, which is distinct from the Stacks' Cystinosis
Research Foundation, but the groups work hand in hand on, for example, the
international registry.

Gail is mother hen to others in the South African group, largely state patients
with no medical aid. She's produced easy-to-follow information pamphlets for the
group and meets and advises members. Until recently Colin covered most of the
running costs and lent other assistance, such as cooler bags to preserve the
cysteamine drink. (The group now receives a small donation from a Dutch couple,
Jan and Marjolein Bos, who run a similar group in the Netherlands.)

Gail wants group members to have the same kind of support she received through
the Cystinosis Foundation. "The foundation was the best thing that could have
happened to us," she says, "because we could speak to people who understood what
we were saying and what we had gone through."

Her mentor on the foundation is the eightysomething founder, Jean Hobbs-Hotz.
"There is a treatment for cystinosis," says Hobbs-Hotz. "We want the medical
community to understand the disease so they can make a proper diagnosis and for
families to understand the disease and the need for compliance."

Danielle remains on the verge of kidney failure, but her family is keeping their
eye on the future. "To say the worst is over won't be very realistic," says
Gail. "But we are hopeful and prayerful that by God's grace a cure for
cystinosis will be found so that Danielle and many other sufferers will be able
to enjoy good health.">

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2011 M and G Media (Pty) Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              480 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                       July 2, 2015 Thursday 6:30 AM EST

Cortendo : Cortendo Provides 2015 Half-Year Update on Corporate Progress

LENGTH: 1019  words


July 2 -- Cortendo AB (publ) [ticker: CORT on NOTC-A], a biopharmaceutical
company focused on rare endocrine disorders and other rare diseases, today
announced an update on 2015 half-year corporate progress.

"The significant leadership experience and industry expertise of our Board of
Directors and Management Team are tremendous assets as we continue to build a
leading biopharmaceutical company focused on addressing unmet needs in rare
diseases, including rare endocrine disorders such as Cushing's Syndrome and
acromegaly," said Matthew Pauls, president and chief executive officer of
Cortendo. "We look forward to simultaneously advancing development and
pre-commercialization activities for COR-003, COR-004 and COR-005, as we
continue to explore additional late-stage and commercialized opportunities in
endocrinology and other therapeutic areas," Pauls added.

Cortendo Expands Board of Directors and Management Team

Cortendo has expanded its Board of Directors and Management Team to help execute
against its strategic plans be a leader in commercializing innovative medicines
for rare endocrine disorders and other rare diseases. Earlier this year, the
Company welcomed two new members to its Board of Directors with the appointments
of John H. Johnson as Chairman and Richard Kollender as Director. In addition,
Cortendo's Management Team has grown this year with the additions of A. Brian
Davis as Chief Financial Officer and Stephen Long as Chief Legal Officer.

Cortendo Provides Update on COR-003 Phase 3 Clinical Development Program

Cortendo's lead product candidate, COR-003 (levoketoconazole), is currently
being studied in a pivotal Phase 3 clinical trial for the treatment of
endogenous Cushing's Syndrome. The Phase 3 trial continues to progress on trial
implementation and recruitment. We expect to report top-line data during the
first half of 2017 and, subject to a completed trial with supporting data, to
file applications for regulatory approval in the United States and the European
Union in the second half of 2017. For more information about the trial, visit
http://www.cushingssyndromestudy.com/.

Cortendo Expands Rare Endocrine Disease Franchise with Completion of
Transactions for Two-Late Stage Assets

Cortendo has completed its previously announced transactions to in-license
commercialization rights to Antisense Therapeutics' ATL1103 for endocrinology
applications and to acquire Aspireo Pharmaceuticals' Somatoprim (DG3173), an
investigational compound being studied for the treatment of acromegaly.

ATL1103, now known as Cortendo's COR-004, is a novel second-generation antisense
compound designed to block the synthesis of growth hormone receptor (GHr)
thereby reducing levels of insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1) in the blood. It
is in clinical development for the treatment for acromegaly. Under the terms of
the license agreement, Cortendo provided Antisense Therapeutics with an initial
upfront payment of $5 million, consisting of $3 million in cash and a $2 million
investment in Antisense Therapeutics equity.

DG3173, now known as Cortendo's COR-005, is a next-generation somatostatin
analog (SSA) with a unique receptor affinity profile, being investigated for the
treatment of acromegaly, with potential additional applications in Cushing's
Syndrome and neuroendocrine tumors. Under the terms of the agreement, Cortendo
provided Aspireo Pharmaceuticals approximately $30 million in Cortendo equity,
calculated using a subscription price of $1.3222 per share. In addition, as part
of Cortendo's related round of financing, TVM Capital, Aspireo Pharmaceuticals'
primary shareholder, purchased $4.25 million of Cortendo shares in the private
placement described below. The issuance of shares for use in the acquisition of
COR-005 was approved by Cortendo shareholders at an Annual General Meeting (AGM)
on June 25, 2015.

Cortendo Closes Aggregate $59.6 Million in Two Private Placement Financings and
Provides Update on Cash Position

Cortendo also announced today that the Company has closed its previously
announced second private placement financing of the year totaling approximately
$33.2 million with leading U.S. and EU institutional investors, including
Longwood Capital, TVM Capital and Granite Point Capital. Several existing
investors, including RA Capital Management, New Enterprise Associates, Broadfin
Capital and HealthCap, have also extended their investments in Cortendo through
this round of financing. In addition, Management and key advisors invested $0.5
million in the private placement.

The subscription price was $1.3222 per share and 25,128,559 new shares were
issued to the investors. The issuance of these additional shares was approved by
Cortendo shareholders at an AGM on June 25, 2015.

As announced on February 11, 2015, Cortendo previously closed a private
placement totaling approximately $26.4 million. That round of financing included
leading U.S. institutional specialist healthcare investors RA Capital
Management, New Enterprise Associates and Broadfin Capital. HealthCap also
participated, increasing its existing investment in Cortendo. The investments in
2015 built off an $11 million investment in late 2014, bringing Cortendo's total
raises from private placements to more than $70 million in approximately seven
months.

"We want to thank all of our investors for their confidence in Cortendo, its
leadership team and mission to become a leader in commercializing innovative
medicines for rare endocrine disorders and other rare diseases," said Matthew
Pauls, president and chief executive officer of Cortendo. "This latest round of
financing strengthens Cortendo's ability to further develop and prepare to
commercialize the Company's rare endocrine disease franchise," Pauls added.

As of June 30, 2015, Cortendo had cash and cash equivalents of $54.4 million,
which includes the cash impact of the private placement as well as the Aspireo
and Antisense transactions. Following the issuances of common stock for the
private placement and the Aspireo transaction, the Company has approximately 207
million shares outstanding.

Source: Cortendo

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2015 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              481 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                Richmond County Daily Journal, Rockingham, N.C.

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             April 10, 2012 Tuesday

Bands will 'Rock the Cure' this weekend

BYLINE: Kelli Easterling, Richmond County Daily Journal, Rockingham, N.C.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 707 words


April 10--Local contemporary Christian bands have joined forces to "Rock the
Cure" this Saturday, while "rocking out" on two stages in the Winn Dixie parking
lot in Rockingham from 11 a.m until 4 p.m.

"There will also be a bounce house for kids, kids games and a car show," said
event organizer Scotty Mabe, the drummer for Fortress. "It's all free, and
anyone who wants to bring their car, truck or bike to the car show is welcome to
join."

Members of Fortress, fellowServant, 1st Assembly, Ingnite and Freedom Praise
will unite for a day of free entertainment, to raise awareness for rare diseases
that afflict at least two children in Richmond County.

Jack Berry, son of Lee and Amy Berry of Ellerbe, has been diagnosed with Dravet
Syndrome.

Dravet Syndrome is a rare and hard-to-control form of epilepsy that begins in
infancy. Children with Dravet Syndrome do not outgrow the condition, and it
affects every aspect of their daily lives, according to dravetfoundation.org.

Children with the seizure disorder also face: behavior and developmental delays;
movement and balance issues; bone problems; delayed language and speech
problems; growth and nutrition issues; trouble sleeping; chronic infections; and
problems regulating body temperature. People with this disorder also have a
higher risk of death during seizures.

Individuals with Dravet Syndrome need constant care and supervision, which can
be financially and emotionally draining for caregivers.

Jordan Wood, son of Walt and Randi Wood of Rockingham, has battled a rare
disorder called Eosinophilic Esophagitis since infancy, and was finally
diagnosed in December 2010. Up until that point, his parents had been told he
suffered from severe acid reflux.

Children who suffer from this disorder often experience difficulty swallowing,
nausea and vomiting, poor growth, malnutrition, weight loss, abdominal or chest
pain, inability to eat and difficulty sleeping.

"Basically eosinophilic disorders are when white blood cells, which usually
fight infections, identify food as a foreign substance in the body and try to
attack," said Randi. "Some people have the disorder in the esophagus, like my
Jordan, and some have it in the intestines, some in the stomach -- but it's all
somewhere in the digestive system."

The five-year-old has now had eight endoscopic procedures, which must be done
any time a new food is introduced to his diet.

"We're taking a break from the procedures, because we go to a doctor in
Greenville, South Carolina, who is out of our network," said Randi. "The
procedure is about $5,000 each time."

Jordan's current diet is fruit, cucumbers, allergen free cookies by Enjoy Life,
So Delicious coconut milk ice cream, and Neocate Splash formula.

"Right now we know for sure that Jordan is allergic to dairy, soy, sunflower,
beef, pork, carrots, rye, oats, squash, green beans, peas, almonds, peaches,
wheat and corn," said Randi.

Jordan took Easter in stride, giving all the candy from his plastic Easter egg
hunt to other kids.

"He didn't even complain about that," said his mother. "He's an amazing little
boy."

The band members hope to raise awareness about these little-known disorders on
Saturday. Informational booths and guest speakers will help spread the word.

"Everything will be free, but all the money from the food sales from Glenwood
United Methodist Church will be donated to the families to help them out with
medical expenses," said Mabe. "We will also have donation boxes out, if anyone
wants to contribute."

"I know it's race weekend, so we might have picked a bad time," said Mabe. "But,
then again, there will be a lot of people in town which could mean that even
more people will stop by."

"We're excited and humbled that the bands have included us in this event," said
Randi.

Randi and her husband have been working to raise awareness about Eosinophilic
Esophagitis through participation in marathons and with their blog
wrjwood.blogspot.com.

-- Staff Writer Kelli Easterling can be reached at 910-997-3111, ext. 18, or by
email at keasterling@heartlandpublications.com

___ (c)2012 the Richmond County Daily Journal (Rockingham, N.C.) Visit the
Richmond County Daily Journal (Rockingham, N.C.) at www.yourdailyjournal.com
Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20120410-RU-Bands-will-Rock-the-Cure-this-weekend-0410-20120410

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: RU


                                 Copyright 2012


                              482 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                      South China Morning Post (Hong Kong)

                                 July 31, 2000

Genes linked to cot deaths

BYLINE: Alex Lo

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 240 words


A ground-breaking overseas study on cot death may shed light on why Hong Kong
has such a low incidence of the syndrome, doctors say.

Heart experts at Italy's University of Pavia found between 25 per cent and 30
per cent of such deaths were caused by a rare disease called long-QT syndrome,
an electrical abnormality in the heart. The condition affects about one person
in 10,000 in the West and is caused by genetic mutations. The Italian team
published its results last week in the New England Journal of Medicine.

Dr Cheung Pik-to, an associate professor in Hong Kong University's department of
paediatrics, said genetic factors could account for the low number of cases of
sudden infant death syndrome in Hong Kong. "We can't rule out genetic factors
playing a role," he said. "We expect to learn more about the genetic basis of
QT-syndrome with the completion of the human genome project."

Dr Cheung said international figures on sudden infant death syndrome - also
called cot death - showed Hong Kong had 0.2 deaths in 1,000 babies, compared
with 0.7 in Britain, 1.4 in New Zealand and 0.8 in the US. The incidence rates
were almost double in the West in the 1980s until physicians taught parents to
lay babies on their backs, traditional practice in Hong Kong, rather than on
their stomachs, a position which may block their breathing. Even accounting for
this, Dr Cheung said, Hong Kong still had a low incidence.

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                  Copyright 2000 South China Morning Post Ltd.


                              483 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                 Yorkshire Post

                          November 26, 2014 Wednesday

Mother's plea to NHS to fund drug for Sam, 6

LENGTH: 588  words


A mother has issued a heartfelt plea to NHS chiefs to fund a new treatment for
an incurable degenerative condition which is her son's only hope of a better
life.

Sam Brown, six, was born with the very rare Morquio syndrome, which prevents
children growing normally. Most need wheelchairs by their teens and do not
survive beyond their twenties.

Since 2012, his family have been given fresh hope in a trial of a new drug
Vimizim, which they say has led to significant improvements in his condition,
which affects fewer than 100 people in the UK. The youngster is continuing to
receive the treatment until a meeting of health officials next month to decide
if it should be funded from the public purse.

But his family have been devastated to learn funding for the drug is unlikely to
be approved.

The family's MP, Liberal Democrat Greg Mulholland, has secured a meeting with
Life Sciences Minister George Freeman to discuss his plight as a campaign for
funding steps up.

His mother Katy Brown, 38, of Otley, near Leeds, said: "It has benefited him
hugely. It's not a cure. But he has now got a chance because he has had it from
such as young age.

"It will certainly extend his quality of life but, based on what I've seen,
there's a good chance it will extend his life and allow him to be independent."

But she added: "Every indication we have been given thus far is that the funding
will not be approved, which means his treatment would stop and the disease would
be allowed to progress. This is unthinkable."

She said a scorecard used by NHS England to appraise drugs discriminated against
very rare diseases where treatments tend to be expensive.

"Sam has a very limited timeframe for the right decision to be made," she said.

"He has no idea of the silent path Morquio syndrome has set for his future. With
Vimizim, he may never need to know."

Since her son has been on the drug, she said he is stronger, with more stamina
and energy. He has also grown.

She said: "He's very intelligent, bright and articulate and there's every chance
of him doing well at school and going to university and fulfilling his hopes and
dreams."

Christine Lavery, chief executive of the Society for Mucopolysaccharide
Diseases, blamed changes under the Government's NHS reforms last year for
causing uncertainty for people over funding for new treatments.

"Despite the UK being the major player involved in the clinical development of
Vimizim and British and Irish citizens being part of the clinical trial process,
we are some of the last countries in Europe to have the drug funding approved,"
she said.

Morquio syndrome affects major organs, leading to physical disability, shortness
including a maximum height of 3.5ft, heart disease and difficulties breathing.
Because the body does not grow, organs get squashed. It affects one in 250,000
people and is inherited through a defective gene in both parents. Katy Brown and
husband Simon, 39, have another son Alex, two, who is unaffected.

A petition calling on NHS England to fund the drug is at
http://you.38degrees.org.uk/petitions/nhs-england-s-scorecard-discriminates-agai
nst-treating-ultra-rare-diseases&urlHash=1.6169192254645206E-271.

A regional spokesman for NHS England said: "We sympathise with any patient and
family who await a decision on the authorisation of a drug or treatment and
appreciate what a difficult time this must be. Decisions to fund treatments and
drugs are made based on their effectiveness following clinical trials."

A decision on funding for Vimizin would be announced next month.

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NLYP


                       Copyright 2014 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved


                              484 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                 Indian Express

                            August 9, 2014 Saturday

US firm to provide free drugs to Indian kid with Hunter Syndrome

BYLINE: Debesh Banerjee

LENGTH: 555  words

DATELINE: New Delhi


Arian Chowdhury can finally heave a sigh of relief. The 12-year-old boy from
Kolkata who was diagnosed with a rare lysosomal storage disorder called Hunter
Syndrome at the age of 4, will finally receive treatment free of cost.

American drug manufacturer Shire that produces Elaprase, the only drug to treat
this condition, has agreed to provide treatment to the boy free of cost for the
rest of his life. The drug, which is a form of enzyme replacement therapy, needs
to be given every week and costs Rs 3-4 lakh per week.

The annual cost can be in excess of Rs 1.2 crore though it varies from patient
to patient. Since the medicine is expensive, many patients are left without
treatment. But once the medicine is administered, it needs to be continued for
the rest of the patient's life.

Shire agreed to fund Arian's treatment under its Charitable Access Program
(CAP), where it selects patients from across the world diagnosed with various
rare diseases such as Gaucher, Fabry and MPS II (Hunter Syndrome). Lauren
O'Brien, in charge of Communications and Public Affairs at Shire, confirmed this
via email response: "Arian's physician applied to the Shire Charitable Access
programme and his application was submitted to and selected by an Independent
Medical Expert Committee. We are very happy to be able to help Arian and others
in this program."

While there are others from India who have been selected as part of CAP, the
exact number of patients is not known. Shire responded saying a "significant
number of patients" had been selected for this. Though Arian has been suffering
for many years now, his case came to light in recent months after over one lakh
signatures were achieved through an online petition on change.org in June this
year. A subsequent meeting with Health Minister Dr Harsh Vardhan promising to
offer Arian help, gave a boost to his chances of getting treatment.

Arian's father Sib Sankar Chowdhury, who works as an IT support executive in
Kolkata, is elated by the news. "In March when we visited our doctor in Delhi
she applied for his treatment. I am glad our efforts paid off and Arian will
finally be able to lead a normal life," he said. Arian would frequently visit
Delhi where he was receiving therapy under the care of Dr Ratna Dua Puri,
vice-chairperson, Centre for Medical Genetics at Sir Ganga Ram Hospital.

All about The disease

What is it:  A rare genetic disease that interferes with the way cells and
organs function in the body. Only seen in males, the disease affects one in
5,000 people. Most other rare diseases affect one in 2,000. Named after Scottish
physician Charles A Hunter in 1917, there are an estimated 120 patients
suffering from the  disease in India.

Symptoms: Not easily visible at birth, the first signs such as ear infections,
runny nose and cold are common to other childhood illnesses. Thus, it takes a
long time to diagnose. Other symptoms include stiffness in joints, limited
movements, a nose with a flattened bridge, coarseness of skin and prominent
forehead, among others.

Treatment: Apart from palliative care, there is a drug Elaprase, developed by US
drug manufacturer Shire Human Genetic Therapies Ltd, which is the only known
drug to effectively treat patients suffering from this syndrome. Once the
patient starts taking the medicine is has to be continued life long.

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2014 Indian Express, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              485 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                      June 22, 2016 Wednesday 6:30 AM EST

Anavex Announces US FDA Orphan Drug Designation for ANAVEX 2-73 for Treatment of
Infantile Spasms

LENGTH: 454  words


June 22 -- Anavex Life Sciences Corp. ("Anavex" or the "Company") (Nasdaq:AVXL),
a clinical-stage biopharmaceutical company developing differentiated
therapeutics for the treatment of neurodegenerative and neurodevelopmental
diseases including Alzheimer's disease, other central nervous system (CNS)
diseases, pain and various types of cancer, today reports the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration's Office of Orphan Product Development has granted Orphan Drug
Designation to ANAVEX 2-73 for the treatment of infantile spasms.

"Infantile spasms marks the second Orphan Drug Designation for our ANAVEX 2-73
program, following the Orphan Drug Designation received for the treatment of
Rett syndrome," said Kristina M. Capiak, Vice President of Regulatory Affairs
for Anavex.

The FDA's Office of Orphan Products Development advances the evaluation of drugs
that show promise for the safe treatment of rare diseases, defined as those
affecting fewer than 200,000 people in the United States. The designation
provides sponsors with development and commercial incentives, including seven
years of market exclusivity in the U.S., prioritized consultation by FDA on
clinical studies and certain exemptions from or reductions in regulatory fees.

About Infantile Spasms

An infantile spasm is a specific type of seizure seen in an epilepsy syndrome of
infancy and childhood known as West Syndrome. West Syndrome is characterized by
infantile spasms, developmental regression, and a specific pattern on
electroencephalography (EEG) testing called hypsarrhythmia (chaotic brain
waves). The onset of infantile spasms is usually in the first year of life,
typically between 4-8 months. The seizures primarily consist of a sudden bending
forward of the body with stiffening of the arms and legs; some children arch
their backs as they extend their arms and legs. Spasms tend to occur upon
awakening or after feeding, and often occur in clusters of up to 100 spasms at a
time. Infants may have dozens of clusters and several hundred spasms per day.
Infantile spasms usually stop by age five, but may be replaced by other seizure
types. Many underlying disorders, such as birth injury, metabolic disorders, and
genetic disorders can give rise to spasms, making it important to identify the
underlying cause. In some children, no cause can be found.

Infantile spasms occur in roughly 2-3 per 10,000 live births, with peak
incidence at 6 months of age and less than 10% of cases presenting after 12
months of age. Neurological and/or developmental outcomes in patients with
infantile spasms are usually poor. Children with symptomatic spasms more
frequently exhibit neurological deficits and cognitive and developmental delays.

Source: Anavex Life Sciences

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2016 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              486 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                        The Augusta Chronicle (Georgia)

                             April 21, 2008 Monday
                                  ALL EDITION

Did Booth kill a dying man? Physician says 16th president suffered rare genetic
cancer

BYLINE: By Lisa M. Krieger< San Jose Mercury News<Summary goes here. 5A

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A05

LENGTH: 575 words


SAN JOSE, Calif. - Did John Wilkes Booth shoot a dying man?

That's the controversial conclusion reached by physician and amateur historian
John Sotos, who says President Lincoln was suffering from a lethal genetic
cancer syndrome when he was shot at Ford's Theatre 143 years ago.

"Lincoln was a rare man with a rare disease," said Dr. Sotos. He has
self-published a 300-page book and 400-page database to support his conclusion,
based on an analysis of Lincoln photographs and historical eyewitness
descriptions of the president's health. "This solves a puzzle."

While most Americans only reflect on dead presidents during long weekends in
February, Dr. Sotos and other physician historians pore over ancient accounts of
long-gone symptoms, studying aches and pains as if the patient had stepped out
of the grave into the clinic.

Lincoln's health has fascinated medical sleuths. In 1962, it was suggested that
his great height and long limbs were linked to a genetic disorder called Marfan
syndrome. Others have proposed alternate ailments - Ehlers-Danlos syndrome,
perhaps, or Stickler syndrome. Some say he suffered from depression or
exhaustion.

Lincoln's health had long puzzled Dr. Sotos.

Last year, while assembling a medical database about the 16th president, Dr.
Sotos read an unrelated article about thyroid cancer, the deadly and inevitable
outcome of multiple endocrine neoplasia type 2B, or MEN 2B.

Many of the symptoms matched Lincoln's, and Dr. Sotos made a link. The
condition, which causes aggressive thyroid cancer, explains Lincoln's lanky
build, chronic constipation, hooded eyes, asymmetric jaw and the lumps on his
lips, he said. His health was weakening in the months before the assassination,
Dr. Sotos asserts.

If true, Lincoln's death could have been messy and lingering, Dr. Sotos
speculates, not sudden and shocking. For a nation in post-war turmoil, "it would
have been a much different ending."

The medical community is divided on the theory.

"Sotos has presented a very compelling case," said Dr. Charis Eng, the director
of the Geno-mic Medicine Institute of the Cleve-land Clinic Foundation. "It is
fascinating. But the jury is still out."

More skeptical is Dr. Jeffrey F. Moley, an expert in the disease at Washington
University in St. Louis. "I strongly doubt that Lincoln had MEN 2B. I have seen
a hundred patients with MEN 2B, and I see none of the characteristic features.
It's very, very unlikely."

A cardiologist, colonel and chief flight surgeon in the California Air National
Guard, Dr. Sotos is also a medical consultant to the TV show House, M.D. and has
founded the company Apneos, which builds devices to treat sleep apnea.

"I enjoy peeling back the boundaries of my ignorance," he said. His interests
are so vast that Dr. Sotos earned his math degree from Dartmouth and medical
degree from Johns Hopkins before coming to Palo Alto to study artificial
intelligence at Stanford.

Only a DNA sample will prove whether Lincoln might have soon died a natural
death had Booth lost his nerve. That sample won't come from Lincoln; he's buried
in concrete. It won't come from his living descendants; there are none. Only a
precious sample of blood, from a saved swath of soiled fabric, would be
definitive. Until then, history offers the best clues.

"Physicians have an obligation to investigate everything that may shed light on
their patient's health," Dr. Sotos said. "I have simply approached Lincoln as if
he were my patient."

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2008 Southeastern Newspapers Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              487 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                 The Oklahoman

                            April 5, 2006 Wednesday
                                  City Edition

Health: Support group to meet;
Cushing's syndrome sufferers work together

BYLINE: Augie Frost, Staff Writer

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16A

LENGTH: 269 words


Cheryl Farrar couldn't understand why she kept gaining weight.

She ate healthy foods and exercised regularly, but couldn't seem to shed excess
pounds. When she began feeling weak, stressed and depressed, she began to worry.

In January 2004, shortness of breath, a low pulse and fatigue had Farrar fearing
for her life.

Farrar is one of 3,000 to 4,500 Americans who have Cushing's syndrome, a rare
hormonal disorder, according to the National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive
and Kidney Diseases.

The Cushing's Understanding Support & Help group -- of which Farrar is vice
president -- will hold a conference Thursday and Friday to support patients and
"bring about awareness of this rare disease," Farrar said.

"It's kind of a lonely illness," she said. "The conference will give us a chance
to speak with each other."    The syndrome is named for Dr. Harvey Cushing, who
discovered it in the early 1900s. The syndrome typically affects adults age 20
to 50 and is caused by higher than normal levels of cortisol, a hormone produced
by the adrenal glands that help manage the body's metabolism and stress levels.

The hormone helps maintain blood pressure, balances the effects of insulin in
breaking down sugar for energy and helps maintain the cardiovascular system.

Excess cortisol almost always is related to a growth on the adrenal glands, said
Dr. Modhi Gude, an Oklahoma City endocrinologist.

The support group will meet from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Thursday at "The Meeting
Place" in Penn Square Mall and from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. Friday at Integris Baptist
Medical Center.

For more information, call Farrar at 848-6027.

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Graphic: Oklahoma Wellness Week it's Your life! (logo)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2006 The Oklahoman, All Rights Reserved


                              488 of 997 DOCUMENTS


             National Post's Financial Post & FP Investing (Canada)

                           December 12, 2015 Saturday
                                 Early Edition

Montreal firm developing drug for deadly E. coli complication; Bellus Health
estimates 3,000 yearly cases of potentially fatal syndrome

BYLINE: Damon Van Der Linde, Financial Post

SECTION: FINANCIAL POST; Pg. B3

LENGTH: 696 words

DATELINE: MONTREAL


The most recent outbreak of E. coli in the U.S. sickened 52 people in nine
states who ate at Chipotle restaurants and, although the company's shares have
lost nearly $3 billion in market value, for those who contracted the toxic
bacteria the outcome could have been much more devastating.

While Chipotle works to reassure customers that its food is safe, Montreal
drugmaker, Bellus Health Inc., is the only company in the world developing a
treatment for a sometimes fatal complication to the bacteria and will be taking
the treatment to the FDA to begin U.S. studies next year.

Normally, E. coli causes diarrhea, abdominal cramping, fever, nausea and
vomiting for roughly a week, and in the most recent Chipotle outbreak the people
who contracted this bacteria have recovered. Still, in recent history there have
been other strains that had far worse results.

In five to 10 per cent of cases of E. coli the Shiga toxin is produced which
causes hemolytic uremic syndrome (HUS), which affects the kidneys, often leading
to the need for dialysis, and in certain cases chronic renal disease and death,
primarily in children under five.

That's where Bellus' Shigamab antibody therapy would come in, stopping the HUS
when kidney function starts to drop.

In 2011, nearly 4,000 people were infected with E. coli in Germany causing 857
HUS cases and 48 deaths.

Bellus estimates there are 2,000 to 3,000 annual cases of HUS in developed
countries, with a market opportunity between $150 million and $200 million.

"This falls really right in our niche. It's both a rare disease product, which
is an area that we strongly believe in developing drugs for, there's a very high
unmet medical need there and there's also a good potential for a strong return
for our shareholders," said Bellus CEO Roberto Bellini.

Bellus bought the rights to Shigamab (originally developed by the U.S. Army
because the Shiga toxin is a Level 2 biohazard) when it acquired Montreal-based
Thallion Pharmaceuticals Inc. in 2013. Before then there was little progress
being made to develop any sort of treatment for this severe complication.

"When there is a drop off in your kidney function those doctors would then put
you on dialysis, hooking you up to a machine to help your kidneys," Bellini
said.

As a small company of nine employees, Bellus doesn't actually conduct the
initial research or the later stage commercialization.

"We're focused on developing drugs for rare diseases and don't want to do
research or stuffthat's too early stage because we don't think that's a good use
of our money and our time," Bellini said. Health-care equity research analyst
David Martin said there has been a rise in developing treatments for rare
diseases because a lot of the low-hanging fruit in medicine has been picked by
the big pharma companies who commercialize treatments for the most common
illnesses.

"It's looking at these rare diseases where you can actually make an impact in
medicine and the value of what you're developing," said Martin. Also, because a
lot of the "blockbuster" drugs that came out in the past three decades have gone
off patent it's created room to pay for drugs for rare, serious diseases.

"There's more of a need for companies developing drugs for rare, currently
untreated, diseases than there is for just about any other area of medicine
right now," Martin said.

To make a significant profit, treatments for rare diseases typically don't come
cheap.

Bellus' flagship product, Kiacta, which is used for treating another rare kidney
disease, will be on its way to gaining regulatory approval by the middle of next
year and has been modelled by Zacks Small Cap Research to be priced at an
estimated $200,000 per year in the U.S. "I think it's accepted that it just
costs so much to develop drugs these days and if you've got 10 million people
who take your drug it's pretty easy to recoup your cost, but when you've got
5,000 people who take your drug it's got to be priced high," Martin said.

Bellini says that, because Shigamab could qualify for Breakthrough Therapy
designation, it could be fast tracked and available to the public by 2019.
!@COPYRIGHT=© 2015 Postmedia Network Inc. All rights reserved.

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Steven Senne, The Associated Press; A man walks near a Chipotle
restaurant in Boston. A recent outbreak of E. coli in the U.S. sickened 52
people who ate at Chipotle restaurants. Montreal drugmaker Bellus Health Inc.,is
developing the world's only treatment for a sometimes fatal complication to E.
coli.;

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2015 National Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              489 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            December 2, 2016 Friday

Washington: #ScottysStory: Calling for #CuresNow

LENGTH: 233  words

DATELINE: New York



 Washington, DC: Energy & Commerce Committee United States House of
Representatives  has issued the following press release:



 As we've seen this week during the House's consideration of the 21st Century
Cures Act, the fight for #CuresNow is personal for many. That includes Rep. Jeff
Denham (R-CA) and his friend Scotty Whitecotton.





 Scotty has Hunter syndrome and has been incredibly active on the #Path2Cures.
The Mayo Clinic describes hunter syndrome as "a very rare, inherited genetic
disorder caused by a missing or malfunctioning enzyme. Because the body doesn't
have enough of the enzyme to break down certain complex molecules, the molecules
build up in harmful amounts."



 Over time, the build up causes permanent changes to one's physical appearance,
mental development, organ function, and physical abilities.



 Rep. Denham has helped raise awareness of Hunter syndrome, Scotty's own story,
and 21st Century Cures - most noticeably on Scotty's birthday each year.Today,
those efforts continue with a Facebook Live event discussing how 21st Century
Cures will help the rare disease community. Scotty's uncle had Hunter syndrome
and passed away at the age of 12. Today at 19, Scotty is hoping #CuresNow will
help find more treatments - or even a cure - to extend his life.



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact:

 editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              490 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                             The Salt Lake Tribune

                            March 10, 2010 Wednesday

Unraveling one family's genome

BYLINE: By Kirsten Stewart The Salt Lake Tribune

SECTION: BREAKING; Top Stories; News; State

LENGTH: 991 words


Using newly affordable technology, researchers at the University of Utah and
other institutions have sequenced for the first time the entire genome of a
family.

The study revealed that parents pass fewer genetic mutations to their children
than previously thought, which is of interest mostly to evolutionary biologists.
But of broader importance to modern medicine -- and to one Utah family --
researchers also zeroed in on the genetic causes of two rare diseases,
trailblazing the quest to identify more complex and common genetic disorders.

"Just a few years ago if you had asked me, or other geneticists, we wouldn't
have been so sanguine about being able to identify these rare diseases," said
physician Jared Roach, senior research scientist at the Seattle-based Institute
for Systems Biology, which led the study. "But I anticipate we'll see more of
these types of studies over the next 12 months as this technology rolls out."

The study, published Thursday in Science Express, was co-authored by Lynn B.
Jorde and Chad D. Huff in the Department of Human Genetics at the U.'s medical
school.

No one could be more pleased to be riding the next wave of human genetic
research than Debbie Jorde, Lynn Jorde's wife and the woman whose DNA was
scrutinized -- along with the DNA of her two adult children, Logan and Heather
Madsen, and their biological father.

"It's nice to have answers, though we haven't dwelled on why this happened,"
Debbie Jorde said of her children's illnesses. "We focused more on handling our
challenges. The possibility that we can be of help to other people, human kind,
really makes us feel like living with all of these challenges hasn't been a
waste; that it was for a reason."

The Madsen children are among only 30 people worldwide who have been diagnosed
with Miller's syndrome, a condition characterized by facial and limb
malformations. Theirs was the first reported family to have two children
affected by the syndrome.

They also inherited Primary Ciliary Dyskinesia (PCD), a rare condition in which
the tiny hair-like structures that are supposed to remove mucus from the lungs
don't work.

Bound by a strict confidentiality agreement, researchers did not disclose the
family's identity. But Debbie Jorde and her children have been the focus of
clinical papers and medical school lectures over the years. Logan's paintings
have been featured in newspaper articles, and the family consented to be
interviewed by The Salt Lake Tribune.

The odds of having both PCD and Miller's syndrome are less than one in 10
billion, which made the family the perfect test case for new family sequencing
technology.

David J. Galas at the Institute for Systems Biology wanted to use the new
technology to determine the average rate of human genetic mutation, Lynn Jorde
explained.

"It's one of those basic constants we as geneticists need to know, sort of like
how physicists need to know the speed of light," he said. But until very
recently, the technology wasn't readily available or affordable, he added.

Even with the latest technology, pinpointing a mutation among 3 billion "base
pairs" of DNA is like finding a needle in a haystack. So the research team
needed to find children who had inherited a recessive disorder from parents who
showed no genetic abnormalities -- the rarer the better.

"Galas asked, 'Do you know a family like that?' " recalls Lynn Jorde. "I said,
'As a matter of fact, I do.'"

Long before the Jordes met at a social function, and later married, Lynn Jorde
had read about the Madsen children. Before agreeing to have their genes
sequenced, Debbie Jorde and her adult children underwent counseling and talked
to medical ethicists.

Lynn Jorde agreed to certain constraints to avoid any appearance of coercion or
conflict-of-interest. Debbie, Logan and Heather agreed that the benefits of
narrowing the cause of their disorders outweighed any risk of public exposure.

"Until now we didn't know what caused [Miller's syndrome]. We didn't even know
if it was genetic," said Lynn Jorde. "Now we have the causal gene and we
understand how it was transmitted."

By comparing the children's DNA sequences to their parents, researchers
identified the genes responsible for their disorders. The one tied to Miller's
syndrome, "DHOHD," is a metabolic building block, which means it's possible the
disease could be treated nutritionally, said Roach. "There's no guarantee, but
there's hopeful speculation."

Logan Madsen endures chronic back pain. Together, the siblings have logged 50
reconstructive and life-saving surgeries. They deal with attention deficit
disorder and are considered to have autism spectrum disorders. Heather Madsen is
plagued by fatigue and undergoes daily therapy for her lungs.

"Life is full in ways I wish it wasn't and not full enough in ways I wish it
was," said the 33-year-old. She writes poetry and finds peace in sharing her
story and her medical history as it makes her feel less isolated.

Logan, 29, relieved to learn from researchers that it's unlikely he would pass
along either PCD or Miller's syndrome to children.

Researchers also were able to estimate that each parent passes 30 mutations to
offpsring, far less than previous estimates of 75, a calculation based on
evolutionary comparisons of humans to chimps.

"The mutation rate was less than half of what we'd thought," said Lynn Jorde.
"That's the kind of power you get from looking at the whole genome."

The rate will need to be replicated with other families before it's considered
conclusive. "But it's in line with other estimates, so we think we're on track,"
said Lynn Jorde.

kstewart@sltrib.com

By the numbers

22,000 » Each person's number of genes, which make up their DNA, the genetic
blueprint for human life.

More than 3 billion » The number of "base pairs" that determine genetic makeup.

$3 billion » Cost of the Human Genome Project, begun in 1990 and completed in
2003

$5,000 to $10,000 » Cost today to have a person's genome sequenced

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Debbie Jorde (center) and her two adult children, Logan (right) and
Heather Madsen, are among only 30 people worldwide who have been diagnosed with
Miller's Syndrome. They are the first family on record to have two children
affected by the syndrome, characterized by facial and limb malformations.
Miller's Syndrome sufferer Heather Madsen talks about difficulties she faces in
daily life. Her mother, Debbie Jorde is at left. Jorde and her two adult
children, Logan and Heather Madsen, are among only 30 people worldwide who have
been diagnosed with Miller's Syndrome. They are the first family on record to
have two children affected by the syndrome, characterized by facial and limb
malformations.
Debbie Jorde and her two adult children, Logan and Heather Madsen, are among
only 30 people worldwide who have been diagnosed with Miller's Syndrome. They
are the first family on record to have two children affected by the syndrome,
characterized by facial and limb malformations.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 The Salt Lake Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


                              491 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                     October 13, 2016 Thursday 6:30 AM EST

Soligenix Announces Poster Presentations from Its Gastrointestinal Acute
Radiation Syndrome Program at 2016 Radiation Research Society Meeting

LENGTH: 930  words


Oct. 13 -- Soligenix, Inc. (OTCQB: SNGXD) (Soligenix or the Company), a
late-stage biopharmaceutical company focused on developing and commercializing
products to treat rare diseases where there is an unmet medical need, announced
today that it has been invited to present preliminary results from its
gastrointestinal acute radiation syndrome (GI ARS) program at the Radiation
Research Society Meeting on October 15-19, 2016 in Waikoloa Village, HI. The
program is evaluating OrbeShield as a potential medical countermeasure (MCM) for
civilian and military use.

OrbeShield is the Company's proprietary formulation of beclomethasone
17,21-dipropionate (BDP) that includes immediate and delayed release tablets for
treatment of the GI tract. The presented results will address both model
development and OrbeShield efficacy data facilitating the potential approval of
OrbeShield as an MCM. Soligenix's GI ARS program is supported by contract awards
from both the Biomedical Advanced Research Development Authority (BARDA) and
National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID), part of the
National Institutes of Health, with potential options, totaling up to
approximately $34 million. In addition to developing oral BDP as an MCM, the
Company is pursuing oral BDP as a treatment for GI inflammation in pediatric
Crohn's disease and acute radiation enteritis.

Poster Presentation Details:

* Gastrointestinal structure and function in a preclinical partial body
irradiation (PBI) Gottingen mini-pig model of acute radiation syndrome presented
by Dr. Oreola Donini, Chief Scientific Officer, Soligenix, Inc., on Wednesday,
October 19, 2016, 5:15-7:00 PM.

* Functional evaluations in GI acute radiation syndrome: Evaluation of nutrient
absorption in Gottingen mini-pigs and Rhesus monkeys presented by Dr. Simon
Authier, Senior Director of Scientific Operations and Veterinary Services,
CiToxLAB North America on Sunday, October 16, 2016, 1:45-3:15 PM.

* OrbeShield efficacy in a preclinical partial body irradiation Gottingen
mini-pig model of acute radiation syndrome presented by Dr. Oreola Donini, Chief
Scientific Officer, Soligenix, Inc., on Wednesday, October 19, 2016, 5:15-7:00
PM.

* Gastrointestinal Acute Radiation Syndrome in Rhesus Monkeys: Comparison of
Total Body Irradiation and Partial Body Irradiation presented by Dr. Simon
Authier, Senior Director of Scientific Operations and Veterinary Services,
CiToxLAB North America on Wednesday, October 19, 2016, 5:15-7:00 PM.

About the Radiation Research Society Meeting

The Radiation Research Society holds an annual meeting, bringing together
experts from many disciplines and interests worldwide. The Society has three
major objectives, including encouraging the advancement of radiation research,
facilitating cooperative research in the disciplines of physics, chemistry,
biology and medicine and promoting dissemination of knowledge. Details regarding
the annual meeting can be found at: http://www.radres.org/mpage/2016Home.

About OrbeShield

OrbeShield is formulated for oral administration in GI ARS patients as a single
product consisting of two tablets. One tablet releases BDP in the proximal
portions of the GI tract, and the other tablet releases BDP in the distal
portions of the GI tract. BDP has been marketed in the US and worldwide since
the early 1970s as the active pharmaceutical ingredient in inhalation products
for the treatment of allergic rhinitis and asthma. To date, OrbeShield has been
safely administered to more than 380 human subjects in multiple clinical
studies. OrbeShield also is being developed for use in other GI disorders
characterized by severe inflammation such as pediatric Crohn's disease and
radiation enteritis.

The US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has cleared the Investigational New
Drug (IND) application for OrbeShield for the mitigation of morbidity and
mortality associated with GI ARS. OrbeShield has also been granted Orphan Drug
and Fast Track designations by the FDA for the prevention of death following a
potentially lethal dose of total body irradiation during or after a radiation
disaster. OrbeShield development as an MCM for GI ARS is currently being
supported by BARDA (contract #HHSO100201300023C) and NIAID (contract
#HHSN27220130030C) contracts valued up to $26.9 million and $7.0 million,
respectively, if all options are exercised and all supplemental funds are
included.

About GI ARS

ARS occurs after toxic radiation exposure and involves several organ systems,
notably the bone marrow, the GI tract and later the lungs. In the event of a
nuclear disaster or terrorist detonation of a nuclear bomb, people exposed to
radiation levels greater than 2 Gy are at high risk of developing ARS. According
to the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), exposure to high
doses of radiation exceeding 10 to 12 Gy causes acute GI injury, which can
result in death in 5 to 15 days. The GI tract is highly sensitive to
radiation-induced damage due to the requirement for incessant proliferation of
crypt stem cells and production of mucosal epithelium. The extent of injury to
the bone marrow and the GI tract are the principal determinants of survival
after exposure to total body irradiation. Although hematopoietic ARS can be
rescued by bone marrow transplantation or growth factor administration, there is
no established treatment or preventive measure for the GI damage that occurs
after high-dose radiation. Therefore, there is an urgent need to develop
specific MCMs against the lethal consequences of radiation-induced GI injury.

Source: Soligenix

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2016 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              492 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                        York Daily Record (Pennsylvania)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             June 30, 2012 Saturday

One step at a time, York County man recovers from rare disease

BYLINE: Leigh Zaleski, York Daily Record, Pa.

SECTION: LIFESTYLE

LENGTH: 1140 words


June 30--YORK, Pa. -- John Piermatteo moved about his apartment in slow paces,
taking an extra moment with each step. He kept a tight grip on the banister as
he walked up a handful of steps that led to his dining area in June.

Four months earlier, he couldn't walk.

Piermatteo, 42, of Shrewsbury awoke Feb. 13 with a tingling in his hands and
legs. It felt as if his limbs were asleep, but when he moved, the prickly
feeling didn't go away.

He had been fighting a cough and cold since November, but he didn't think
anything of it. He went to work, but felt worse as the day progressed. His
fingers got weaker. He tried to type, but he couldn't make his fingers press the
keys. When he stood up from his desk at 3 p.m., he fell over. His co-workers
called 911.

Emergency-room doctors diagnosed him with Guillain-Barre syndrome, a disorder
that occurs when the body's immune system attacks part of the nervous system. A
virus or immunization might cause the response. About one to two in 100,000
Americans develop the disorder each year. However, Piermatteo's case was rare.

Dr. Diane Kepner of White Rose Family Practice said most patients do not have
the condition as severe as Piermatteo did. It had hit him fast.

In the days before he got sick, he worked, cooked a turkey and took his dogs for
a walk.

The day after Piermatteo was admitted to York Hospital, he landed in the
Intensive Care Unit. He couldn't lift his arms off his chest or move his legs.
He was slowly becoming paralyzed. If the paralysis continued to spread from his
arms and legs to his rib cage, he wouldn't be able to breathe.

"I wasn't afraid to die," he said. "I've had a wonderful life."

However, Piermatteo feared lying in bed, conscious, with a breathing tube down
his throat. He also thought about his daughters, Ann Marie, 11, and Zoe, 9, and
what their life would be like without him.

He asked his dad to go pick up his daughters from school so he could talk to
them in

case he would soon be on a respirator.

Doctors gave Piermatteo intravenous immunoglobulin treatments that worked
temporarily, but his paralysis continued to worsen. Next, they tried
plasmapheresis, a blood purification procedure used to treat several autoimmune
diseases.

The purification procedure stopped the paralysis from spreading, but not before
his nervous system was damaged. That's when the pain started in his hands, arms,
feet and legs.

He said it feels similar to being outside in the cold for too long, then running
your frozen hands under warm water. He has felt pain like that to some degree
since. Despite the pain, he needed to regain strength, and learn how to walk and
use his hands.

As sensation slowly returned to his body, he recorded the progress by marking
his stomach, from his chest down. He wanted to see the small steps of his
recovery. After about two weeks in the hospital, doctors moved him to
HealthSouth Rehabilitation Hospital of York, where he stayed for another month.

Kepner said recovery is different for every person. While some patients regain
their strength in months, 30 percent of them experience weakness for up to three
years.

"It's sort of like you have the weakness and the disability almost of a stroke
or paralyzed patient for no real reason," she said.

Piermatteo went home in a wheelchair March 30. However, he had miles to go.

He lives with his girlfriend, Ginger Gelston, who had back surgery a couple of
weeks before Piermatteo

was diagnosed with GBS. He had planned to take care of her. While she couldn't
bend over or lift anything heavy, he could barely stand up.

"It was a comedy of errors," Piermatteo said.

They made it work, and Piermatteo focused on therapy and his progress. He
learned how to stand and walk without a cane. His doctors told him to set a
goal. He wants to be able to swing a golf club by his birthday -- July 8.

His daughters, who stay with him every other weekend, help him when they can.
When he could barely stand without falling, 9-year-old Zoe stood by him so he
could rest a hand on her shoulder.

"I thought he was never going to recover because he was in the hospital for a
long time," she said. "When I saw him walking, I was just really happy."

Piermatteo said he also relies on friends and other family members as he heals,
something that has been tough because he prefers to be the one helping others.

He hasn't been able to work since February. He still can't move his fingers
enough to type or walk for more than a few minutes. He can't hold a gallon of
milk for more than 20 seconds.

Piermatteo said he can't afford to pay some of his medical bills and that he has
worried about his financial future -- a type of recovery he wasn't prepared to
face.

Though his insurance covered about 95 percent of his care, he said, he still
owes thousands of dollars.

Piermatteo said his greatest disappointment is that he couldn't coach his
daughters' soccer team this year, which he has done for the last several years.

However, he's content with the progress he's making and hopes his experience can
help others. He said his illness is difficult to relate to because it's fairly
uncommon. He plans to start a local chapter of a GBS foundation.

"I would like to make sure no one would have to feel that way again," Piermatteo
said.

717-771-2101; @leighzaleski

About Guillain-Barre syndrome

Guillain-Barre syndrome is an autoimmune disorder. The exact cause of GBS is
unknown. The syndrome can occur at any age, but it is most common in people of
both sexes between ages 30 and 50.

It often follows a minor infection, such as a lung infection or gastrointestinal
infection. Most of the time, signs of the original infection have disappeared
before the symptoms of GBS begin.

Recovery can take weeks, months or years. Most people survive and recover
completely. According to the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and
Stroke, about 30 percent of patients still have some weakness after three years.
Mild weakness might persist for some people.

In the U.S., about 3,000 to 6,000 people develop GBS each year -- about one to
two cases per 100,000 people.

-- U.S. National Library of Medicine, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

Meet Piermatteo

Name: John Piermatteo

Age: 42

Lives in: Shrewsbury

Family: Daughters Ann Marie, 11, and Zoe, 9

Occupation: Technical support

Quotable: "It was like getting hit by a bus and everything is different," about
developing Guillain-Barre syndrome.

Foundation

John Piermatteo said he plans to start a local chapter of the Guillain-Barre
Syndrome Chronic Inflammatory Demyelinating Polyneuropathy Foundation
International.

He hopes newly diagnosed patients contact him for support. For details, email
johnpiermatteo@gmail.com For more information about GBS, visit www.gbs-cidp.org.

___ (c)2012 York Daily Record (York, Pa.) Visit York Daily Record (York, Pa.) at
www.ydr.com Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20120630-YO-One-step-at-a-time-York-County-man-recovers-from-
rare-disease-0630-20120630

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: YO


                        Copyright 2012 York Daily Record


                              493 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                        Progressive Media - Company News

                            October 10, 2016 Monday

Sanofi secures BARDA contract to develop Leukine

SECTION: PHARMACEUTICALS AND HEALTHCARE; Drug Manufacturing

LENGTH: 207 words


Sanofi Genzyme, a global business unit of Sanofi, has secured a $37.6m contract
from the Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority (BARDA), for the
supply and manage inventory for Leukine.

Leukine is a treatment for acute radiation syndrome, an illness that can damage
organs including the bone marrow, gastrointestinal tract and lungs.

It can also cause neutropenia, an abnormally low level of white blood cells that
fight infection called neutrophils.

Sanofi Genzyme Rare Diseases global head Richard Peters said: "According to the
centres for disease control and prevention, the cause of death in most cases of
acute radiation syndrome is the destruction of the person's bone marrow.

"We are pleased to be able to partner with BARDA to support public health."

In 2013, Sanofi secured a $36.5m contract for late stage development and
procurement of Leukine.

The company has conducted tests regarding the potential use of Leukine in
patients acutely exposed to myelosuppressive doses of radiation.

Sanofi Genzyme is planning to submit a supplemental biologics licence
application (sBLA) to the US Food and Drug Administration in 2017.

BARDA develops vaccines, drugs, therapies, and diagnostic tools for
public-health medical emergencies.

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2016 Progressive Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              494 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                         Telegraph Herald (Dubuque, IA)

                            February 27, 2009 Friday

Letters to the editor

BYLINE: From Marla Cruise Mal de Debarquement Syndrome, support site
administrator and moderator, 905 Rockdale Road

SECTION: A; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 194 words


Iowa Gov. Chet Culver and several other U.S. governors have proclaimed Feb. 28
as "Rare Disease Day." In the U.S. a disease is considered "rare" if it affects
fewer than 200,000 people. It is estimated that approximately 30 million
Americans (one in 10) have a rare disease. Unfortunately, research for most rare
diseases is lacking in funding, which leaves people with little to no chance of
being cured. Physicians are oftentimes unfamiliar with the disease, leaving
their patients without an accurate diagnosis, which can result in unnecessary
medical testing. These obstacles leave a person with a rare disease feeling
isolated. Family and friends don't understand why you aren't able to attend all
functions and festivities. Hopelessness can set in when you realize there is no
research, cure, or medication that will give you your life back. It is the goal
of the National Organization for Rare Diseases to make the last day of February
"Rare Disease Day" every year in the United States, Australia, Canada, China,
throughout Europe and elsewhere. I hope readers will visit
www.rarediseaseday.org to learn more about the worldwide activities taking place
Feb. 28.

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Woodward Communications, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              495 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               February 13, 1996

HEALTH: TERROR OF THE UNKNOWN

BYLINE: Vivien Stern

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN FEATURES PAGE; Pg. T10

LENGTH: 3040 words


HEALTH is the ultimate national lottery but how much do we really know about the
odds on winning and losing? Most people worry about the big killers such as
heart disease and cancer but rare diseases do not cause much worry because the
odds against contracting them can be as low as one in a million. However there
is an awesome number of diseases trying homo sapiens; the World Health
Authority's International Classification of Disease runs to about 1,000 pages,
with 20 to 30 entries a page. In other words, most disease is rare, though any
comfort you derive from this may quickly turn to alarm if you draw an unlucky
number in the health lottery. Rare disease, often hard to diagnose, afflicts
tens of thousands of Britons each year.

Vivien Stern, who describes her experience below, was one of the more lucky
sufferers. Thanks to a knowledgeable and quick-thinking GP her disease was
diagnosed quickly and efficiently and she has made a full recovery. Stern
developed Guillain Barre Syndrome which affects one in every 50,000 people.
"It's not routinely taught in medical school and it can be difficult for a
doctor to recognise the symptoms," says Glennys Sanders, founder of the Guillain
Barre Syndrome Support Group. "A GP may see only one case in a lifetime" The
group has just launched a nationwide campaign to alert doctors to the symptoms.

Behet's Syndrome, an immune disorder of the blood vessels, is even rarer,
affecting one in every 100,000 people. "Some doctors don't appear to believe
patients when they describe their symptoms," says Georgina Seaman, of the
Behet's Syndrome Society. "This can lead to years of delay in people getting
appropriate help and treatment. Untreated sufferers can go blind or suffer a
stroke or symptoms mimicking MS".

We cannot blame doctors for "missing" really rare disease like Behet's Syndrome,
but how can we ensure that we make the most of available information? This week
the Health Page launches an occasional Noticeboard column (see below) for
readers.

I WAS recovering from pneumonia when I developed an excruciating leg pain. This
disappeared within two days, but my legs lost their power. I blamed the
pneumonia. A day or two, I told myself, and I'll be fine. The next day things
were worse; hands and feet, prickling with pins and needles, went strangely
numb.

Within two hours of calling the GP, I was in hospital.  After many tests, a
young doctor said: "It's probably Guillain Barre Syndrome. Tony Benn had it some
years back. Don't you remember?" I did not. The doctor added: "The most
important thing is that you'll make a complete recovery."

The true significance of these words was lost on me. I did not know that about
20 per cent of sufferers rapidly become so paralysed that they can only move
their eyes and eyelids. I should have realised something serious was happening
when they started checking my breathing every 30 minutes; and when the nurses
reassured me that all their Guillain Barre patients had "made a complete
recovery".

The following day I could still breathe, swallow and move my upper half. I had a
lumbar puncture to establish if the protein level in my spinal fluid was
abnormally high. Two more days and luck seemed to be on my side. I even began to
improve slightly. After 10 days I was walking unsteadily and anticipating a
weekend at home. I then woke to find that my facial muscles had lost their
strength. I talked with difficulty and ate and drank slowly and messily. I was
weaker.

During my five-week stay in hospital I discovered that the syndrome had been
discovered in 1916 by two French doctors, after whom it is named. It is an
auto-immune disease in which the body turns upon itself. The immune system
attacks the myelin which forms a protective sheath around some types of nerve
fibre. The peripheral nerves connecting the central nervous system to the skin
and the muscles become inflamed and stop working properly.

Fortunately, the immune cells realise they are doing something wrong and stop
it. Four weeks is regarded as the length of time during which damage can occur.
The body then replaces the damaged myelin and recovery begins. No one seems to
know why the immune cells suddenly and randomly get it wrong. It can occur in
people of any age (including young children); it affects both men and women; it
is not hereditary or infectious.

As an experience it is hard to describe. From being a very active, energetic
person, you rapidly become someone who can hardly hold a book. The doctors come
in to examine you as you lie on your hospital bed. "Raise your right leg," they
say.  You try really hard; you concentrate and put all you can into whatever
used to be necessary to do such a simple thing - and you manage to lift the leg
about a millimetre off the bed.

Out of the whole experience two emotions predominate. The first is fear: an
irrational retrospective fear as you realise how little lay between you and many
unimaginable months in intensive care with a tube in your throat and no means of
communication. Then, as you lie in bed during the sleepless nights, the fear of
a misdiagnosis insinuates itself - perhaps they got it wrong, perhaps it will go
on for years, perhaps you'll never be able to live normally again.

Then there are the day fears. The overriding one is the fear of falling which
was present with every teetering step I took gri pping my Zimmer frame. I fell
down about once a day, damaging nothing except my pride and confidence. The
remarks of the male heart patients (this was a mixed cardiac ward) - "Here comes
Nigel Mansell.  Keep it up, love" - were some consolation.

GRATITUDE was the other strong emotion. The physiotherapists worked from the
"neurogym" where all the neurologically-impaired patients went once or twice a
day. They told us we could do certain things with our damaged bodies - like
stand up - that we knew were impossible. Eventually we did as we were told and
found that we could stand up, take a step, lift an arm, whatever was the aim of
the day.

The neurogym brought me face to face with a concentration of tragedy, human
decency and endurance. There was the young Sikh who regularly brought his mother
after her stroke. She could not speak, register any emotion, walk, or move her
arms. He tended her, encouraged her, persuaded her to drink, translated the
physiotherapists' instructions, willing her to get better.

The nurses also evoked great gratitude. They frequently reminded me that while
it is good to be positive and cheerful, it would be normal now and then to feel
anger, frustration and depression. When I did they were there to listen and
console.

I was also able to reflect on institutional life. As someone whose work takes me
into prisons, the parallels with hospital, in spite of the fundamental
difference of purpose, were striking. In hospital, as in prison, you feel
forgotten by the outside world. The most important event of the day is the
arrival of the visitors; the next most important the arrival of the mail.  You
become dependent on others for basic needs, fetching a commode, taking you to
the shower. Relationships are intensified. The barriers that normally exist
between strangers are broken down because you are all undergoing abnormal
experiences.

Outside life fades.  Then you get weekend leave and are filled with terror.
"How will I manage? Suppose I get a relapse?  Suppose I fall and break a leg?"
After two nerve-wracking days at home you get back with such relief to the ward
you know you can walk across, the nurses you know you can call, the routines you
have learned to live by.

I was deeply grateful to the Guillain Barre Support Group. The membership badge,
an elegant green and gold tortoise, is engraved with GBS - for Guillain Barre
Syndrome and also for Getting Better Slowly.

Vivien Stern is Director of the National Association for the Care and
Resettlement of Offenders and Secretary-General of Penal Reform International.
She fell ill in 1994 and has made a complete recovery.

The Guillain Barre Support Group is based at Lincolnshire County Council
offices, Eastgate, Sleaford, Lincolnshire, NG34 7EB.

Health: Your guide to the health lottery

TEST your knowledge of the health lottery from this random list of common and
not so common diseases. How common is:

* Migraine

* Depression.

* Diabetes.

* Psoriasis.

* Crohn's disease.

* Ulcerative colitis.

* Parkinson's disease.

* Alzheimer's disease.

* Multiple sclerosis.

* Bacterial meningitis.

* Motor neutone disease.

* Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease.

ANSWERS: Migraine, a severe headache lasting from two hours to two days with
vision disturbances and nausea, affects one person in 10.

Depression affects one person in 20. Three people in every 1,000 are estimated
to see psychiatrists.

Diabetes, caused by insufficient insulin, affects one adult in 33.

Psoriasis, the red, scaly skin complaint featured in Dennis Potter's play, The
Singing Detective, affects one person in 50.

Crohn's disease, a chronic inflammatory disease which can affect any part of the
gastrointestinal tract, affects one person in 750.

Ulcerative colitis, chronic inflammation of the lining of the colon, affects one
person in 750.

Parkinson's disease, a neurological disorder causing muscle tremor and
stiffness, affects one person in 1,000, one in 100 of over-65s, and one in 50 of
over-80s.

Alzheimer's disease, a degenerative brain disorder, affects one person in 1,000
and one in 20 of over-65s.

Multiple sclerosis, a progressive disease of the central nervous system, affects
one person in 800.

Bacterial meningitis (as distinct from the less dangerous viral type), affects
one person in 25,000.

Motor neuron disease, a degenerative disease leading to muscle weakness and
wasting, affects one person in 13,500.

Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease, the human version of BSE, affects one person in a
million.

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 Guardian Newspapers Limited


                              496 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                        Whittier Daily News (California)

                            February 27, 2012 Monday

Whittier mom focuses on son's rare disease

BYLINE: Sandra T. Molina, Staff Writer

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 536 words


Photo Gallery: Whittier boy copes with rare brain disease

WHITTIER - Single mom June Lipps was completely frustrated and felt alone in her
quest to get a definitive diagnosis for her son.

Questioning doctors, scouring the Internet, and searching other informational
venues could not give her the answer she was seeking regarding the endless
seizures Dylan, 7, was enduring.

"No one could tell me what was happening to my son," said Lipps, 43.

After years of countless tests, including a spinal tap, the Whittier mom had her
answer.

Dylan Lipps was diagnosed with Glucose Transporter Type 1 Deficiency Syndrome
(Glut1-DS), a rare brain disease.

At the time of his October 2010 diagnosis, he was only one of 225 in the world
to have Glut1-DS.

A rare (or orphan) disease is generally considered to have a prevalence of fewer
than 200,000 affected individuals in the United States, according to the
National Institutes of Health's office of rare disease research.

Lipps is leading a campaign to honor her son on Wednesday, which is Rare Disease
Day.

She, her mom, Jo Anne Pearce, Dylan and the staff at Sorensen Elementary School
will be wearing special T-shirts and jeans as part of the day's "Wear That You
Care" slogan.

Wednesday marks the fifth international Rare Disease Day coordinated by EURORDIS
(Rare Diseases Europe) and organized with rare disease national alliances in
more than 40 countries worldwide.

"Solidarity," the day's 2012 theme, focuses on the importance and the need for
collaboration as well as mutual support in the field of rare diseases.

Glut1-DS is characterized by developmental delay or mental disabilities, ranging
from mild to severe.

Neurological problems, such as seizures, stiffness, tensing of the muscles,
muscle twitches and lack of energy are symptoms Dylan has suffered.

It was a relief to put a name to Dylan's condition, but with it came a whole new
set of obstacles.

The main one was a strict diet.

"At this time there is no cure for Glut1-DS," Lipps said. "At this time there is
no cure for Glut1-DS," Lipps said. "The only treatments are the ketogenic diet
or the Modified Atkins Diet with MCT oil (medium chain triglycerides) that my
son is on."."

The ketogenic diet is a high-fat, adequate-protein, low-carbohydrate diet.

Having Glut1-DS means that an affected child's cells do not pick up protein that
transports glucose to the brain - it does not work properly in Glut1-DS
patients.

Glucose is the principal source of fuel to the brain.

Since the glucose can't get to the brain properly it can't function the way it
should.

"It's been very challenging for everyone involved in his life," Lipps said.

But the diet is working for Dylan.

"Energy is now getting to his brain, and I've seen improvement in all areas
physically, mentally and his speech."

"He's a loving boy," said his grandmother, who has helped care for Dylan since
the diagnosis.

Pearce, 73, moved from Arizona to live with her daughter and grandson.

Although there is a family history of Alzheimer's, Pearce said that she didn't
know of anyone else afflicted with Glut1-DS.

"I'm just so glad he is doing better," she said. "He's just so lovable."

Contact Sandra via email , by phone at 562-698-0955, ext. 3029, or on Twitter
@MolinaSGVN .

LOAD-DATE: February 29, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Dylan Lipps, 7, of Whittier with his mom June, right, and grandmother
Jo Anne Pearce at their Wardman Street home Feb. 23, 2012. (SGVN/Staff photo Leo
Jarzomb/SWCITY)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2012 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              497 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                        March 1, 2013 Friday 6:30 AM EST

Albany Med to Host 'World Rare Diseases' Forum

LENGTH: 220  words


New Delhi, March 1 -- In recognition of the 6th annual World Rare Diseases Day,
Albany Medical Center, in cooperation with the Global Genes Project, the Oley
Foundation and local organizer Ed Fennell, will present a World Rare Diseases
forum on Thursday, February 28 from 4pm to 6pm at the Hilton Garden Inn at
Albany Medical Center.



In the United States, a disease is considered rare when it affects fewer than
200,000 people nationwide. The National Institutes of Health estimates there are
nearly 7,000 known rare diseases in the world affecting approximately 300
million people; more than AIDS and cancer combined. It's estimated that 80
percent of those diseases affect children.

Doctors from Albany Med's pediatric infectious disease division will discuss and
take questions about treatment of rare diseases. They will be joined by a
patient who, because of a rare disease called short bowel syndrome, has been on
intravenous (IV) feedings for the last 30 years, and a representative from the
Oley Foundation, an organization that supports patients who require long-term IV
feedings.

The forum will be moderated by Fennell, the grandfather of two children who are
battling rare diseases. It will include a question and answer session as well as
time for families who are affected by rare diseases to share their stories.

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2013 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              498 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                     Coffs Coast Advocate (New South Wales)

                             July 9, 2011 Saturday

Rare disease conference

BYLINE:  Deb Ford

SECTION: Pg. 11

LENGTH: 177  words


IMAGINE this - your child has been diagnosed with a rare genetic disease.

There is no specific treatment.

Its cause is unknown, indeed, not much is known about the disease at all.

Such a scenario faced David Stevens when his daughter, Deisha, was diagnosed
with Rubinstein-Tabyi syndrome about two years ago.

The disease is characterised by broad thumbs and toes, short stature,
distinctive facial features and varying degrees of mental disability.

Faced with a lack of knowledge and little available information, Mr Stevens set
out to discover as much as he could about it.

He could find only nine other families in Australia with children having the
syndrome.

Fast forward to 2011.

Having established the Rubinstein-Taybi Australia Association, now with 40
registered families, set up its website and Facebook page, this weekend Mr
Stevens is convening the inaugural Rubinstein-Taybi Syndrome Australian
Conference at Darlington Beach Resort at Arrawarra.

"This is the first time that families with the disease have had the opportunity
to get together," Mr Stevens said.

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CCA


                    Copyright 2011 APN Newspapers Pty. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              499 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                              Medical Device Daily

                              May 11, 2010 Tuesday

Washington roundup: CMS pays out awards for HHA P4P as FDA scrutinizes devices

LENGTH: 1277 words

Medical Device Daily Washington Editor

Pay for performance, or P4P, is all the rage in hospitals doing business with
Medicare, but the same may eventually be said for home health agencies (HHAs) if
a demonstration project successfully runs its course. The Centers for Medicare &
Medicaid Services reported last week that it had awarded an unspecified amount
of money to home health agencies (HHAs) that scored high on quality measures,
and first-year numbers suggest that P4P may work in this realm of healthcare in
much the same way as it does in hospitals.

The attempt to bolster quality of care by offering payments for performance may
encounter some financial headwinds, at least where home care operators are
concerned, given that FDA is in the process of imposing more regulatory
requirements of makers of devices that operate in homes. The requirements could
well boost the cost of such devices, potentially offsetting any gains in
reimbursement from CMS.

According to the May 6 CMS announcement, the payments - which were carved out of
a savings of $15 million generated by the program - went to HHAs that ranked in
the top quintile in their respective states "as well as those demonstrating the
greatest degree of quality improvement" for calendar year 2008. The first phase
of the program used four U.S. Census regions located in seven states as the test
sites and employed a rubric of costs incurred for home healthcare patients who
migrated to other settings, including in-patient hospital and nursing and
rehabilitative care as well as hospice care and use of durable medical equipment
to determine scores. The deciding factor was whether the participating HHAs
generated any savings based on these benchmarks, and HHAs in three of the four
regions managed to pull savings out of the program. The region that failed to
clear any savings was the Midwest region, which covered only parts of Illinois.

Participant HHAs in the other three areas were located in the Northeast
(Connecticut and Massachusetts), the South (Alabama, Georgia and Tennessee) and
the West, which had only California HHAs as participants. According to a fact
sheet published by CMS in 2007, the agency will award 75% of the bonus money to
agencies that score in the top 20% while the remaining 25% of the bonus monies
will go to HHAs that demonstrate the greatest improvements.

CMS indicated that data for returns for last year are in process and will be
announced later this year, and that "the demonstration is still being evaluated,
with results expected later in 2010."

NIH pins down rare disease gene

Finding specific genetic components responsible for propensity to a commonly
encountered disease is tricky enough, but figuring out which gene sequences are
implicated in rare diseases is an entirely different matter. However, the
National Human Genome Research Institute (NHGRI) at the National Institutes of
Health recently said it has come up with an approach to doing just that.

In a May 6 announcement, NIH says that it has used "inexpensive, high-speed
sequencing and a newly developed ability to capture pieces of the genome that
encode genes" to diagnose "an extremely rare X chromosome-linked cleft palate
syndrome known to affect just two families" in the U.S. Best of all, NIH
indicates that the effort might speed along efforts to pin down the genetic
components of other rare diseases.

The disease in question, bearing the unfortunate acronym of TARP (Talipes
equinovarus, Atrial septal defect, Robin sequence, Persistent left superior vena
cava), is said to be caused by a mutation in a gene known as the RNA binding
motif 10 (RBM10) gene. This gene is among a group of 28 million base pairs that
researchers apparently had pinned down in 2003 as a suspect zone on the X
chromosome, but that was as far as then-extant technology allowed the effort to
go. Researchers at NIH placed the samples they had on hand, drawn from a single
American family, in cold storage, but a recent technology seemed well suited to
the task, and researchers brought out the samples for another look.

The NIH statement notes that the new kit is "specifically designed to capture
and sequence only the exons along the X chromosome," which prompted the renewed
interest, although the statement offers little detail as to the nature of the
new test kit. The study behind all this will be published in the May 14 edition
of the American Journal of Human Genetics, although the online edition was not
updated beyond the April 9 issue at press time yesterday.

Using samples from the original family as well as a second family recently known
to be affected by the syndrome allowed NIH researchers to pin down the precise
location of the damaged genetic material. Since the damaged gene appears in only
the X chromosome, fetal males are entirely susceptible to the syndrome because
they have no redundancy of the X chromosome to overwrite the faulty DNA. The NIH
statement indicates that TARP "is 100% lethal in males."

The suite of other diseases implicated in other damage specific to the X
chromosome includes Duchenne muscular dystrophy, color blindness and hemophilia
as well as "numerous forms of mental retardation," the statement notes.

NIH states that TARP was "originally described in 1970" and that members of the
first family known to carry the genetic problem exhibited an insertion "of a
single base pair" via a mechanism known as a single frame-shift mutation. The
second family in the U.S. to be diagnosed as carriers likewise exhibited a
problem with a single base pair, although the aberration in this instance is
blamed on a nonsense mutation. Researchers at NIH tested their hypothesis by
manipulating a mutated gene into mice, hence confirming the diagnosis.

James Mullikin, PhD, acting director of the NIH Sequencing Center in NIH's
facility in Rockville, Maryland and a co-author of the study, is quoted in the
announcement as saying that "further studies of the RBM10 gene may give
researchers further insight into more common forms of cleft palate," and that
studies of genes of rare disease states, "both those we already know something
about and the one-third of genes in the human genome we don't yet, can lead to a
better understanding of their larger biological function and role in other human
diseases."

PTO to webcast roundtable

The U.S. Patent and Trademark Office has consistently demonstrated that it is
serious in its efforts to deal with patent quality and patent the backlog, and
recently announced that it will hold a series of roundtables with stakeholders
to obtain feedback on how the agency can improve patent quality. According to
the April 30 PTO statement, the roundtables are both open to the public and will
be webcast.

The first roundtable was held in Los Angeles yesterday, while another roundtable
is slated for May 18 at the PTO building in Alexandria, Virginia. The
roundtables are part of the joint effort between PTO and the Department of
Commerce "to obtain input from organizations and individuals on actions that can
improve patent quality and the metrics to be used to measure quality."

PTO director David Kappos said in the statement that quality patents "are
critical to the proper functioning of the patent system, and issuing high
quality patents is a top priority" for the agency. Kappos added that patent
quality assurance "provide[s] certainty in the market and allow businesses and
innovators to make informed and timely decisions on product and service
development."

The May 18 event will run from 8:30 until noon Eastern time and will be webcast
from the agency's web site at

Mark McCarty, 703-268-5690


LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newsletter


                          Copyright 2010 AHC Media LLC
                              All Rights Reserved
